NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR 
LAW REPORT1N 
LIBRARY 
SPECIAL ISSUE  
Kenya Gazette Supplement No. 130 
601 
26th July, 2019 
(Legislative Supplement No. 39) 
LEGAL NOTICE No. 126 
THE PHARMACY AND POISONS ACT 
(Cap. 244) 
THE PHARMACY AND POISONS (PARALLEL IMPORTED 
MEDICINAL SUBSTANCES) RULES, 2019 
ARRANGEMENT OF RULES 
Rule 
PART I—PRELIMINARY 
1— Citation. 
2— Application. 
3— Interpretation. 
PART II- CERTIFICATE OF PARALLEL IMPORTATION AND 
PARALLEL IMPORT LICENCE 
4— Qualification to parallel import medicinal substances. 
5— Application for a certificate of parallel importation. 
6— Issuance for a certificate of parallel importation. 
7— Certificate of parallel importation not transferable. 
8 —Validity of certificate of parallel importation. 
9—Rejection of an application for a certificate of parallel 
importation. 
10—Application for renewal of certificate of parallel importation. 
11—Application for parallel import licence. 
12—Additional requirements by the Board. 
13—Board inquiries in country of origin 
14—Issuance of licence. 
15—Licence not transferable. 
16—Validity of licence. 
17—Rejection of an application for a parallel import licence. 
18—General conditions of parallel import licence. 
19—Application for renewal of a parallel import licence. 
602 	
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 
20—Revocation, variation and suspension of parallel import licence. 
21—Suspension of use, sale, supply or offer for sale or supply of 
medicinal substances. 
22—Recall of a medicinal substance from the market. 
PART III—INVENTORY OF PARALLEL IMPORTED MEDICINAL 
SUBSTANCES 
23— Inventory of parallel imported medicinal substances. 
24— Record-keeping obligations. 
PART IV— PHARMACOVIGILANCE 
25— Pharmacovigilance issues. 
26— Additional obligations. 
PART V —PRICING OF PARALLEL IMPORTED MEDICINAL 
SUBSTANCES 
27—Principles of pricing of parallel imported medicinal substances. 
28— Pricing guidelines. 
PART VI—PACKAGING AND LABELLING OF PARALLEL 
IMPORTED MEDICINAL SUBSTANCES 
29— Labelling and packaging guidelines. 
PART VII—INSPECTIONS 
30— Places authorised officers may enter. 
31— Powers of authorised officers. 
32— Use of records. 
33— Entry of dwelling place. 
34— Magistrate courts to issue warrant. 
35— Use of force. 
36— Certificate of analysis. 
37— Assistance of an authorised officer. 
38— Obstruction. 
39— Seizure. 
40— Order for restoration. 
41— Rejection of an application for order of restoration. 
42— Appeals 
PART VIII—TRACING OF PARALLEL IMPORTED MEDICINAL 
SUBSTANCES 
43— Establishment of a tracing system. 
44— Data matrix of medicinal substances. 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 	
603 
45— Functions of the tracing system. 
46— Duties of a licensee. 
47— Batch recalls. 
PART IX—THE PARALLEL IMPORTATION APPEALS 
COMMITTEE 
48— The Appeals Committee. 
49— Procedure on Appeals. 
PART X —MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
50—Transition. 
51—Offences in connection with application of parallel import 
licence. 
52—Provision of false or misleading information. 
53—Failure to comply with urgent safety restrictions. 
54—The offence of use, sale, supply, e.t.c of a suspended medicinal 
substance. 
55—General offence of breach of provision of these rules. 
FIRST SCHEDULE—APPLICATION FOR A CERTIFICATE 
OF PARALLEL IMPORTATION OR 
RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE OF 
PARALLEL IMPORTATION 
SECOND SCHEDULE—FEES 
THIRD SCHEDULE—CONDUCT OF PROCEEDINGS OF 
THE PARALLEL IMPORTATION 
APPEALS COMMITTEE 
604 	
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 
THE PHARMACY AND POISONS ACT 
(Cap. 244) 
IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred by section 44 of the 
Pharmacy and Poisons Act, the Cabinet Secretary for Health, after 
consultation with the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, makes the 
following Rules— 
THE PHARMACY AND POISONS (PARALLEL IMPORTED 
MEDICINAL SUBSTANCES) RULES, 2019 
PART I—PRELIMINARY 
1. These Rules may be cited as the Pharmacy and Poisons 
(Parallel Imported Medicinal substances) Rules, 2019. 
2. These Rules shall apply to medicinal substances which are 
parallel imported and distributed on the Kenyan market except— 
(a) a medicinal substance prepared by a pharmacist in the 
pharmacy and dispensed without promotion, blood, blood 
plasma and blood preparations containing cellular elements 
of blood, or substances such as dental fillings and plates, or 
surgical preparations such as catgut and plaster of Paris 
bandages; 
(b) non-registered 	
patented 	
medicinal 	
substance 	
for 
compassionate use; 
(c) an orphan medicinal substance; or 
(d) non-registered medicinal substance for named patient use 
and hospitals. 
3. In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires — 
"Act" means the Pharmacy and Poisons Act; 
"Appeals Committee" means the Parallel Importation Appeals 
Committee established under rule 48; 
"authorized officer" means the registrar, pharmaceutical analyst, 
pharmaceutical inspector, a medical officer, an inspector of medicinal 
substances, an administrative officer or a police officer in the rank of 
Superintendent and above; 
"branded generic medicinal substance" means a medicinal 
substance usually intended to be interchangeable with the originator 
brand product, manufactured without a licence from the originator 
manufacturer and marketed after the expiry of patent or other 
exclusivity rights; 
"certificate" means the certificate of parallel importation issued 
under rule 6; 
"country of origin" means a country from which the parallel 
imported medicinal substance is imported; 
"licence" means a licence granted under rule 14 to allow the 
licensee to carry on parallel importation of a medicinal substance; 
Citation. 
Application. 
Interpretation. 
Cap. 244. 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 	
605 
"licensee" means a person licensed to engage in parallel 
importation of a medicinal substance under these rules; 
"marketing authorization" means the certificate of registration 
issued by the competent medicinal substance regulatory authority in the 
country of origin for the purpose of marketing or free distribution of a 
medicinal substance after evaluation for safety, efficacy and quality; 
"marketing authorization holder" means a person who holds a 
marketing authorization; 
"notification" means the process of entering actual movement 
and state of each unit of a medicinal substance into the tracing system 
established under rule 43; 
"parallel importation" means the importation into Kenya, by a 
licensed importer of medicinal substance other than the marketing 
authorization holder or his or her technical representative of the 
following medicinal substances which require marketing authorization 
in Kenya — 
(a) patented medicinal substances under section 58(2) of the 
Industrial Property Act, 2001; 
(b) non-patented medicinal substances; or 
(c) branded generic medicinal substances; 
"parallel imported medicinal substance" means a medicinal 
substance imported into Kenya under these Rules; 
"pharmacovigilance" means the detection, assessment, 
understanding and prevention of adverse effects or any other medicinal 
substance-related problem; and 
"risk management plan" means a detailed description of a plan 
that contains — 
(a) a description and analysis of the safety profile of the 
medicinal substance including a summary of the safety 
concerns; and 
(b) a set of medicinal substance vigilance and risk minimization 
activities designed to identify, characterize and manage risks 
relating to the medicinal substance including the assessment 
of the effectiveness of these activities and interventions. 
PART II—CERTIFICATE OF PARALLEL IMPORTATION AND 
PARALLEL IMPORT LICENCE 
4. A person shall not parallel import a medicinal substance into 
Kenya unless — 
(a) the person is incorporated as a limited liability company 
under the Companies Act, 2015; 
(b) the person has been granted a certificate of parallel 
importation; 
(c) the person is licensed to parallel import the medicinal 
substance; 
No. 3 of 2001. 
Qualification to 
parallel medicinal 
substances. 
No. 17 of 2015. 
L.N. 147/1981. 
606 	
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 
(d) the medicinal substance has a valid registration in Kenya 
under the Pharmacy and Poisons (Registration of Drugs) 
Rules; and 
(e) the medicinal substance has a valid market authorization in 
the country of origin. 
5. (1) A person who wishes to undertake parallel importation 
shall apply, to the Board, for a certificate of parallel importation in the 
Form 1 set out in the First Schedule. 
(2) The application form shall be accompanied by — 
(a) a certified copy of the applicant's certificate of 
incorporation; 
(b) a certified copy of the applicant's memorandum and articles 
of association or its equivalent under the Companies Act, 
2015; 
(c) the applicant's company profile as may be appropriate for 
parallel importation of medicinal substances; 
(d) a copy of certificate of registration, issued under section 9 of 
the Act, to the registered pharmacist who shall be at the 
premises; 
(e) a copy of certificate of registration of premises issued under 
section 23 of the Act; 
(0 a copy of wholesale dealer's licence issued under section 27 
of the Act; 
(g) a copy of manufacturer's licence issued under section 35A of 
the Act, where applicable; 
(h) a copy of certificate of membership of Pharmaceutical 
Society of Kenya; 
(i) such other information as the Board may require from time 
to time; and 
(j) the application fee prescribed in the Second Schedule. 
6. The Board shall consider an application made under rule 5 and 
where satisfied that all the necessary requirements have been met, issue 
a certificate of parallel importation to the applicant, within a reasonable 
time of the applicant lodging the application. 
7. A certificate of parallel importation issued under rule 6 shall 
not be transferred, assigned or encumbered in any way. 
8. The certificate of parallel importation granted under rule 6 
shall expire on 31st December of every year. 
9. (1) The Board may, within fourteen days of receipt of an 
application under rule 5, consider and reject an application which in the 
opinion of the Board— 
Application for a 
certificate of 
parallel 
importation. 
No. 17 of 2015 
Issuance of 
certificate of 
parallel 
importation. 
Certificate of 
parallel importatia 
not transferable. 
Validity of 
certificate of 
parallel 
importation. 
Rejection of an 
application for a 
certificate of 
parallel 
importation. 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 	
607 
(a) is substantially defective; or 
(b) has not met the requirements of rule 4. 
(2) The Board shall communicate the rejection of an application 
to the applicant within fourteen days of the Board's decision and shall 
state the reason for the rejection. 
10. (1) The holder of certificate of parallel importation may apply 
to the Board for renewal of the certificate at least three months before 
the expiry of the certificate. 
(2) The application referred to under paragraph (1) shall — 
(a) be in Form 1 set out in the First Schedule; and 
(b) be accompanied by the renewal fees prescribed in the Second 
Schedule. 
(3) The Board may renew a certificate where — 
(a) it is satisfied that the licensee has been operating in 
compliance with these Rules; and 
(b) the certificate holder has fulfilled its tax obligations and 
submitted a current certified copy of a tax compliance 
certificate or its equivalent as issued by the Kenya Revenue 
Authority. 
(4) Where the holder of a certificate submits an application for 
renewal of a certificate under paragraph (1), the certificate shall be 
deemed to be valid until the application for renewal is determined. 
(5) A holder of a certificate of parallel importation who does not 
wish to renew a certificate shall inform the Board and specify the 
parallel imported medicinal substances within its possession and how it 
intends to dispose of the substances. 
(6) The certificate of parallel importation of a holder who fails to 
apply for renewal of the certificate within the period prescribed in 
paragraph (1) shall, at the expiry of its validity, be deemed to have 
lapsed and the holder shall not parallel import or sell such medicinal 
substances or purport to do anything in relation to the medicinal 
substances in Kenya. 
(7) A person who contravenes paragraph (6) commits an offence 
and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one million 
shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, or to 
both. 
11. (1) The holder of a certificate of parallel importation shall 
apply to the Board for a license to parallel import a medicinal substance 
in Form 2 set out in the First Schedule. 
(2) An application made under paragraph (1) shall be 
accompanied by — 
(a) copies of the package insert and patient information leaflet 
translated into English or Kiswahili, where available; 
Application for 
renewal of 
certificate of 
parallel 
importation. 
Application for 
parallel import 
licence. 
608 	
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 
(b) an appropriately labelled sample of the medicinal substance 
to be imported; 
(c) information on the exporter, stating whether it is a 
manufacturer, packer, re-packer or wholesaler; 
(d) a statement of justification for importation of the medicinal 
substance including but not limited to the economic 
advantage of reduced price; 
(e) evidence that the medicinal substance is covered by an 
existing market authorization in the country of origin; 
(f) an undertaking that the applicant will ensure the continued 
safety, efficacy and quality of the medicinal substance as 
determined by the Board in Form 3 set out in the First 
Schedule; 
(g) a written confirmation of the lowest price at which the 
medicine is currently sold by the marketing authorization 
holder of the certificate of registration in Kenya dated not 
more than one month before the date of submission of the 
application for a parallel import licence; 
(h) such other information as may be required by the Board from 
time to time; and 
(i) the application fee prescribed in the Second Schedule. 
(3) The marketing authorization holder shall not prevent the 
importation of a parallel imported medicine into Kenya or its sale on 
account of holding a certificate of registration or on account of the 
existence of a patent on such medicine. 
12. (1) The Board may, when considering an application made 
under rule 11, make inquiries and request for such additional evidence 
and documents as the Board may consider necessary. 
(2) The Board shall, within seven working days, specify to the 
applicant such additional evidence and documents as it may require 
under paragraph (1). 
(3) The Board shall reject an application where an applicant fails 
to provide additional evidence and documents under paragraph (2). 
13. The Board may, where it considers it necessary — 
(a) make inquiries to the authorities in the country of origin of a 
medicinal substance to ensure that the medicinal substance in 
question has a valid marketing authorization in the country 
of origin; 
(b) verify manufacturer details, the marketing authorization 
holder, the complete composition, the shelf life and the 
storage conditions; or 
(c) carry out audits on the importers. 
14. (1) The Board may, if satisfied that an applicant has met all 
the requirements, issue a parallel import licence to the applicant, within 
a reasonable time of the applicant lodging the application. 
Additional 
requirements by 
the Board. 
Board inquiries in 
country of origin. 
Issuance of 
licence. 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 	
609 
(2) The licensee may, upon receipt of a licence, proceed with the 
importation of the medicinal substance after the medicinal substance 
has been licensed. 
15. A licence issued under rule 14(1) shall not be transferred, 
assigned or encumbered in any way. 
16. The licence issued under rule 14(1) shall expire on 31st 
December of every year. 
17. (1) The Board may, within fourteen days of the applicant 
lodging the application under rule 11, reject an application which in the 
opinion of the Board— 
(a) is substantially defective; or 
Licence not 
transferable. 
Validity of 
licence. 
Rejection of an 
application for a 
parallel import 
licence. 
(b) has not complied with the requirements under rule 11. 
(2) The rejection referred to under paragraph (1) shall be 
communicated to the applicant within fourteen days of the Board's 
decision and shall state the reason for the rejection. 
18. A licensee shall— 	
General 
conditions of 
(a) take measures to ensure the safe use of the medicinal 
parallel import 
substance and include them in the licensee's risk 
licence. 
management plan; 
(b) comply with obligations on the recording or reporting of 
suspected adverse reactions to the Board; 
(c) comply with any other conditions or restrictions with regard 
to the safe and effective use of the medicinal substance; and 
(d) establish an adequate pharmacovigilance system. 
19. (1) A licensee shall apply to the Board for renewal of a 
licence to parallel import medicinal substances at least three months 
before the expiry of the licence. 
(2) An application under paragraph (1) shall — 
(a) be in Form 2 set out in the First Schedule; and 
(b) be accompanied with the renewal fees prescribed in the 
Second Schedule. 
(3) The Board may renew a licence where — 
(a) it is satisfied that the licensee has been operating in 
compliance with these Rules; and 
(b) the licensee has fulfilled its tax obligations and submitted a 
current certified copy of a tax compliance certificate or its 
equivalent as issued by the Kenya Revenue Authority. 
(4) Where the licensee submits an application for renewal of a 
licence under paragraph (1), the licence shall be deemed to continue in 
force until the application for renewal is determined. 
(5) A licensee who does not wish to renew a licence shall inform 
the Board and specify the parallel imported medicinal substances 
within its possession and how it intends to dispose of the substances. 
Application for 
renewal of a 
parallel import 
licence. 
610 	
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 
(6) The licence of a licensee who fails to submit an application 
for renewal of license within the period prescribed in paragraph (1) 
shall, at the expiry of its validity, be deemed to have lapsed and the 
licensee shall not parallel import or sell such medicinal substances or 
purport to do anything in relation to the medicinal substances. 
(7) A person who contravenes paragraph (6) commits an offence 
and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one million 
shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to 
both. 
Revocation, 
variation and 
suspension of 
parallel import 
licence. 
20. (1) The Board may revoke, vary or suspend a parallel import 
licence if the Board determines that— 
(a) the medicinal substance to which the parallel import licence 
relates is harmful; 
(b) the qualitative or quantitative composition of the medicinal 
substance is not as described in the application for the 
parallel import licence or the material supplied with it; 
(c) the application or the material supplied with it was incorrect; 
(d) there has been a breach of any of the terms of the parallel 
import licence or a requirement on packaging and leaflets; 
(e) a general condition of the parallel import licence has not 
been fulfilled; 
(f) the licensee has not complied with rule 11; 
(g) the licensee has ceased to be established in Kenya; or 
(h) urgent action to protect public health is necessary, in which 
case it may suspend the parallel import licence. 
(2) A person aggrieved by the decision to vary, revoke or suspend 
a licence may lodge an appeal to the Appeals Committee within thirty 
days from the date of the decision. 
21. (1) The Board may suspend the use, sale, supply or offer for 
sale or supply within Kenya of a medicinal substance or batches of a 
medicinal substance to which a parallel import licence relates if the 
Board determines that— 
(a) the medicinal substance to which the parallel import licence 
relates is harmful; 
(b) the positive therapeutic effects of the medicinal substance do 
not outweigh the risks of the medicinal substance to the 
health of patients or of the public; 
(c) the medicinal substance lacks therapeutic efficacy, given that 
therapeutic results cannot be obtained from the medicinal 
substance; 
(d) the qualitative or quantitative composition of the medicinal 
substance is not as described in the application for the 
parallel import licence or the material supplied with it; or 
Suspension of use, 
sale, supply or 
offer for sale or 
supply of 
medicinal 
substance. 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 	
611 
(e) there has been a breach of any of the terms of the parallel 
import licence or a requirement on packaging and leaflets. 
(2) The Board shall notify a licensee, in writing, of a suspension 
under this rule for a specified period that is to take effect from the date 
specified in the notice and shall state reasons for the suspension. 
(3) The Board may, in exceptional circumstances and for such a 
transitional period as the Board may determine, allow the supply of the 
medicinal substance to patients who are already being treated with a 
medicinal substance that is the subject of a suspension under this rule. 
(4) A parallel importer shall destroy any expired parallel 
imported medicines remaining in stock after their expiry date, whether 
during the duration of the permit or after the parallel importation permit 
has expired. 
(5) A person who contravenes paragraph (4) commits an offence 
and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one million 
shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to 
both. 
(6) A person aggrieved by a decision made by the Board under 
this rule may appeal to the Appeals Committee within thirty days from 
the date of the Board's decision. 
22. (1) The Board shall, in writing, require a licensee whose 
licence has been revoked or suspended under rule 20 to take all 
reasonably practicable steps to — 
(a) inform wholesalers, retailers, medical practitioners, patients 
and any other person who may be in possession of the 
medicinal substance to which the parallel import licence 
relates of — 
(i) the revocation or suspension; 
(ii) the reasons for the revocation or suspension; and 
(iii) any action to be taken to restrict or prevent the further 
use, sale, supply or offer for sale or supply of the 
medicinal substance. 
(b) recall from the market in Kenya and recover possession of — 
(i) the medicinal substance; or 
(ii) the batches of the medicinal substance specified in the 
notice, 
within the time and for the period specified in the notice. 
(2) The licensee shall as soon as is practicable inform in writing 
the marketing authorization holder of the recall of the parallel imported 
medicinal substance. 
(3) A person who contravenes paragraphs (1) or (2) commits an 
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one 
million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two 
years, or to both. 
Recall of a 
medicinal 
substance from 
the market. 
612 	
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 
PART III—INVENTORY OF PARALLEL IMPORTED MEDICINAL 
SUBSTANCE 
23. The Registrar shall keep an inventory containing— 	
Inventory of 
parallel imported 
(a) the names of all the holders of certificates of parallel 
medicinal 
importation; 	
substances. 
(b) the names of all licensees; 
(c) all parallel imported medicinal substances; and 
(d) such other information as may be determined by the Board 
from time to time. 
24. (1) A licensee shall at all times keep manual or electronic 
records of the origin, imported quantities and batch numbers of the 
parallel imported medicinal substances. 
(2) The licensee shall share the records kept under paragraph (1) 
with the Board, when required to. 
(3) A person who contravenes paragraphs (1) or (2) commits an 
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding two 
hundred thousand or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one 
year, or to both. 
PART IV—PHARMACOVIGILANCE 
25. (1) A licensee shall establish a system for handling matters 
relating to pharmacovigilance including a system for — 
(a) identifying and reporting adverse reactions; 
(b) a system for safety recalls; and 
(c) the implementation of risk management plans and direct 
healthcare professional communication letters. 
(2) For the purposes of this rule — 
"direct healthcare professional communication" means a single, 
additional risk minimisation measure sent by marketing authorization 
holder to healthcare providers to directly inform healthcare 
professionals about new and important information about a medicinal 
substance. 
(3) The licensee shall submit periodic safety update reports to the 
Board twice a year. 
(4) A periodic safety update report submitted under paragraph (3) 
shall contain— 
(a) summaries of data relevant to the benefits and risks of the 
medicinal substance, including results of all studies, with a 
consideration of their potential impact on the licence for the 
medicinal substance; 
(b) a scientific evaluation of the risk-benefit balance of the 
medicinal substance; and 
Record-keeping 
obligations. 
Pharmacovigilanc 
e issues. 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 	
613 
(c) data relating to the volume of sales of the medicinal 
substance and any data the licensee has relating to the 
volume of prescriptions, including an estimate of the 
population exposed to the medicinal substance. 
(5) A person who contravenes this rule commits an offence and is 
liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one million shillings or 
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to both. 
(6) The court may, in addition to the penalty imposed under 
paragraph (4), order any medicinal substance in respect of which the 
offence has been committed or which has been used for the commission 
of such offence to be forfeited. 
26. In addition to the obligations under rules 23 to 25, a licensee 
shall — 
(a) declare information on its supplier, including the name, 
location and contacts of each of parallel imported medicinal 
substance; 
(b) take full responsibility of quality, efficacy, safety, potency, 
and security of parallel-imported medicinal substance; 
(c) ensure that the storage conditions, Good Distribution 
Practice and Good Manufacturing Practice are observed 
during transport and distribution of parallel imported 
medicinal substances; 
(d) have standard operating procedures; 
(e) comply with Pharmacy and Poisons Board guidelines on 
Good Distribution Practice; 
(0 recall and destroy parallel imported medicinal substances if 
the medicinal substances are determined not to comply with 
quality, safety or efficacy; and 
(g) declare the cost benefit of the medicinal substance to the 
public. 
PART V—PRICING OF PARALLEL IMPORTED MEDICINAL 
SUBSTANCES 
27. The following principles shall guide all aspects of pricing of 
parallel imported medicinal substances— 
Additional 
obligations. 
Principles of 
pricing of parallel 
imported 
medicinal 
substances. 
(a) the economic circumstances prevailing in the country; 
(b) the price of the locally available medicinal substance; 
(c) the cost of importation or packaging, where applicable; 
(d) government policy or directives; and 
(e) such principles as may be considered necessary. 
28. (1) The Board shall develop guidelines on the pricing 
parallel imported medicinal substances to give effect to rule 27. 
of 	
Pricing guidelines. 
614 	
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 
(2) A person who contravenes any provision of the guidelines 
developed under paragraph (1) commits an offence and is liable, upon 
conviction, to a fine not exceeding one million shillings or to 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to both. 
PART VI— PACKAGING AND LABELLING OF PARALLEL 
IMPORTED MEDICINAL SUBSTANCES 
Labelling and 
packaging 
guidelines. 
29. (1) The Board shall make guidelines on the labelling and 
packaging of parallel imported medicinal substances. 
(2) The guidelines shall provide for the following — 
(a) the form and content of the package insert; 
(b) the form and content of the patient information leaflet; 
(c) the labelling of the parallel imported medicinal substance; 
and 
(d) any other information on labelling and packaging that may 
be deemed necessary. 
(3) Where medicine is to be repackaged in Kenya after 
importation, the repackaging shall be done at a site approved and 
licensed by the Board for that purpose. 
(4) A person who contravenes any provision of the guidelines 
commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not 
exceeding one million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding two years, or to both. 
PART VII—INSPECTIONS 
30. (1) An authorized officer appointed by the Board shall — 
(a) carry out regular inspections of premises; and 
(b) inspect consignments of medicinal substances at the port of 
entry. 
(2) An authorized officer may, at any reasonable time, eairy out 
regular inspection of premises and consignments of medicinal 
substances at the port of entry. 
(3) Despite paragraph (2), an authorized officer may enter any 
place in which the authorized officer believes, on reasonable grounds, 
that any person or persons is in any way contravening these Rules. 
(4) The authorized officer entering any premises under this rule 
shall, if so required, produce for inspection by the person who is or 
appears to be in charge of the premises his job identification card. 
31. (1) In order to carry out an inspection in any place pursuant to 
rule 30, an authorized officer may — 
(a) enter and inspect the premises or a port of entry; 
(b) take samples of any medicinal substance; 
Places authorized 
officers may enter. 
Powers of 
authorized 
officers. 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 	
615 
(c) examine any medicinal substance; 
(d) require any person in such place to produce for inspection, in 
the manner and form requested by the officer, the medicinal 
substance; 
(e) open or require any person in the place to open any container 
or package in the premises; 
(f) conduct any test or analysis or take any measurements; or 
(g) require any person found in the place to produce for 
inspection or copying, any written or electronic information 
that is relevant to the administration or enforcement of these 
Rules. 
(2) The authorized officer shall submit a report to the Board after 
carrying out an inspection in accordance with paragraph (1). 
32. When carrying out an inspection in any place, an authorized 
officer may — 
(a) use or cause to be used any computer system in the place to 
examine data contained in or available to the computer 
system that is relevant to the administration or enforcement 
of these Rules; 
(b) reproduce the data in the form of a print-out or other 
intelligible output and take it for examination or copying; 
(c) use or cause to be used any copying equipment in the place 
to make copies of any data, record or document; or 
(d) scrutinize any other record system in use in that place. 
33. An authorized officer may not enter a dwelling place except 
with the consent of the occupant or under the authority of a warrant 
issued under rule 34. 
34. (1) Upon an ex parte application by an authorized officer, a 
magistrate may, if the magistrate is satisfied by information on oath, 
issue a warrant authorizing the authorized officer or officers named in 
the warrant to enter and inspect a dwelling place, subject to any 
conditions specified in the warrant such as— 
(a) the dwelling place is a place referred to in rule 33; 
(b) entry to the dwelling place is necessary for the 
administration or enforcement of these Rule. 
(c) the occupant does not consent to the entry, or that entry has 
been refused or there are reasonable grounds for believing 
that it will be refused or seeking such consent shall hamper 
investigations. 
(2) The time of such entry shall be between six o'clock in the 
forenoon and six o'clock in the afternoon of any day of the week. 
35. An authorized officer executing a warrant issued under rule 
34 shall not use force unless the authorized officer is accompanied by a 
Use of records. 
Entry of dwelling 
place. 
Magistrate court 
to issue warrant. 
Use of force. 
616 	
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 
police officer of the rank of an inspector and above and the use of force 
is specifically authorized in the warrant. 
36. An authorized officer who has analysed or examined a 
medicinal substance or a sample of it, under these Rules, shall issue a 
certificate and report setting out the results of the analysis or 
examination. 
37.(1) The owner of a place or the person in charge of a place and 
every person found in a place to be inspected by an authorized officer 
under these Rules shall — 
(a) provide all reasonable assistance to enable the authorized 
officer to carry out his or her duties under these Rules; and 
(b) furnish the authorized officer with such information as the 
authorized officer may reasonably require for the purpose for 
which entry into the place has been made. 
(2) The authorised officer shall issue an inspection certificate 
once satisfied with the inspection. 
(3) A person who fails to provide assistance or furnish an 
authorized officer with the required information commits an offence 
and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one million 
shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to 
both. 
38. (1) A person shall not obstruct or hinder, or knowingly make 
a false or misleading statement to an authorized officer who is carrying 
out duties under these Rules. 
(2) A person who obstructs or hinders, or knowingly makes a 
false or misleading statement to an authorized officer who is carrying 
out duties under these Rules commits an offence and is liable, upon 
conviction, to a fine not exceeding one million shillings or to 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to both. 
39. (1) An authorized officer may, during an inspection under 
Seizure. 
these Rules, seize any medicinal substance which or in relation to 
which the authorized officer believes, on reasonable grounds, that these 
Rules have been contravened and the authorized officer shall make a 
full inventory of the substances seized. 
(2) The authorized officer may direct that any medicinal 
substance seized be kept or stored in the place where it was seized or 
that it be moved to another place. 
(3) A person shall not remove, alter or interfere in any manner 
with any medicinal substance seized unless authorized by an authorized 
officer. 
40. (1) Any person from whom a medicinal substance has been 
Order for 
seized under rule 39 may, within thirty days after the date of seizure, 
restoration. 
apply to the Board for an order of restoration. 
(2) The Board may order that the medicinal substance seized 
under these Rules be restored immediately to the applicant if, on 
hearing the application, the Board is satisfied that— 
Certificate of 
analysis. 
Obstruction. 
Assistance of an 
authorized officer. 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 	
617 
(a) the applicant is entitled to possession of the medicinal 
substance seized; and 
(b) the medicinal substance seized will not be required as 
evidence in any proceedings in respect of an offence under 
these Rules. 
Rejection of an 
application for 
order of 
restoration. 
41. (1) The Board may, within fourteen days of the applicant 
lodging the application, reject the application that fails to satisfy the 
requirements under rule 40(2). 
(2) The Board shall communicate the rejection under paragraph 
(1), in writing, to the applicant and shall state the reason for the 
rejection. 
42. (1) A person aggrieved by the decision of the Board under 
Appeal. 
rule 41 may appeal to the Appeals Committee within thirty days of the 
Board's decision. 
(2) The Appeals Committee may order that the medicinal 
substance be restored immediately to the applicant if, on hearing the 
application, the Appeals Committee is satisfied that— 
(a) the applicant is entitled to possession of the medicinal 
substance seized; and 
(b) the medicinal substance seized will not be required as 
evidence in any proceedings in respect of an offence under 
these rules. 
(3) A person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Committee 
may appeal to the High Court within thirty days of the Appeals 
Committee's decision. 
(4) The High Court may order that the medicinal substance be 
restored immediately to the applicant if, on hearing the application, the 
High Court is satisfied that — 
(a) the applicant is entitled to possession of the medicinal 
substance seized; and 
(b) the medicinal substance seized will not be required as 
evidence in any proceedings in respect of an offence under 
these rules. 
PART VIII—TRACING OF PARALLEL IMPORTED MEDICINAL 
SUBSTANCES 
43. The Board shall establish and maintain a system that ensures 
that a registered parallel imported medicinal substance can be traced 
through the sourcing, manufacturing, packaging, storage, transport and 
delivery to the health facility, institution or private practice where the 
medicinal substance is used. 
44. (1) The tracing system established rule 43 shall contain data 
matrix of parallel imported medicinal substances provided by the 
licensees. 
(2) The data matrix, in relation to a medicinal substance, shall 
consist of— 
Establishment of a 
tracing system. 
Data matrix of 
medicinal 
substances. 
618 	
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 
(a) business name; 
(b) name of marketing authorization holder; 
(c) name of the local technical representative; 
(d) date of manufacture; 
(e) the batch number; 
(0 the serial number; and 
(g) the expiry date. 
(3) For the purposes of this rule— 
"data matrix" means a two-dimensional code in data matrix type 
or any other suitable code that provides the individualization of each 
medicinal substance as a safety feature. 
45. The tracing system established under rule 43 shall be used 
to— 
(a) check the individualization, standards and content of the 
reported data matrix; 
(b) record the appropriate data matrix in the database and reject 
inappropriate ones; 
(c) track the importation, purchase, transfer, consumption, loss 
and reimbursement of each medicinal substance in the supply 
chain; and 
(d) recall and block transactions unauthorized under these rules 
and that are not allowed through the system. 
46. The licensee shall — 
(a) register each of their medicinal substances on the tracing 
system; 
(b) make notification for matters including purchase, sale, 
return, importation and deactivation steps of the medicinal 
substances for expiry date, stealing and decomposition; 
(c) make notification of all cancelled activities and transactions 
carried out on the medicinal substances and confirm the 
convenient ones and refuse the inconvenient ones; 
(d) store for a minimum of five years and submit when required 
by the Board, written documentation of transactions 
including production and importation documents, bill of sale, 
receiving note and prescription; and 
(e) immediately inform the Board when the licensee identifies a 
medicinal substance that is subjected to notification to the 
tracing system but has not been notified to the system. 
47. The licensee shall — 
(a) keep documents relating to the sale or supply of medicinal 
products under the licence which may facilitate the recall 
from sale of medicinal substances in accordance with 
paragraph (b); 
Functions of the 
tracing system. 
Duties of a 
licensee. 
Batch recalls. 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 	
619 
(b) maintain an emergency plan to ensure effective 
implementation of the recall of a medicinal substance from 
the market where recall is ordered by the Board. 
PART IX— THE PARALLEL IMPORTATION APPEALS 
COMMITTEE 
48. (1) There shall be an appeals committee to be known as the 
Parallel Importation Appeals Committee to consider and decide appeals 
from the decisions of the Board under these Rules consisting of— 
(a) the Chairman of the Board who shall be the chairman of the 
Appeals Committee; 
(b) two members of the Board; 
(c) one person nominated by the Consumers Federation of 
Kenya and appointed by the Cabinet Secretary; 
(d) one person nominated by the Hospital Pharmacists 
Association of Kenya and appointed by the Cabinet 
Secretary; 
(e) one person nominated by the Pharmaceutical Society of 
Kenya and appointed by the Cabinet Secretary; 
(f) one person nominated by the Kenya Pharmaceuticals 
Association and appointed by the Cabinet Secretary; and 
(g) one person nominated by the National Quality Control 
Laboratory and appointed by the Cabinet Secretary. 
(2) In appointing the members of the Appeals Committee under 
paragraph (1)(c) to (g), the Cabinet Secretary shall take into account the 
gender, regional and other diversities of the people of Kenya. 
(3) Any member may at any time, by notice to the Chairperson, 
resign from office. 
(4) Where the office of any members become vacant, whether by 
death or otherwise, the Chairperson may appoint another person to be a 
member of the Appeals Committee for the remainder of the term of the 
member whose vacancy caused the appointment. 
(5) The procedures for the conduct of meetings of the Appeals 
Committee shall be as provided in the Third Schedule. 
(6) The Board shall provide secretariat services to the Appeals 
Committee. 
49. (1) A person aggrieved by a decision of the Board may, 
within thirty days of receiving the decision, appeal to the Appeals 
Committee. 
(2) Upon receipt of an appeal, the Appeals Committee, shall 
consider the appeal and may summarily reject the appeal, if it 
determines that the grounds of appeal are frivolous or vexatious or do 
not disclose sufficient reason for interfering with the decision of the 
Board. 
The Appeals 
Committee. 
Procedure of 
Appeals. 
620 	
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 
(3) The Appeals Committee may, upon hearing an appeal, affirm 
or reverse the decision of the Board, or make such other order as the 
Appeals Committee considers necessary and fit. 
(4) Any person who is aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals 
Committee may within thirty days appeal to the High Court. 
PART X —MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
50. A person carrying out any activity involving parallel 
importation of medicinal substances immediately before the coming 
into force of these Rules shall, within six months from the date of 
coming into force, take all necessary measures to ensure full 
compliance with these Rules. 
51. (1) A person who, in the course of an application for the 
grant, renewal or variation of a parallel import licence for a relevant 
medicinal substance — 
(a) fails to provide the Board with any information that is 
relevant to the evaluation of the safety, quality or efficacy of 
the medicinal substance; or 
(b) provides to the Board any information that is relevant to the 
evaluation of the safety, quality or efficacy of the medicinal 
substance but that is false or misleading in a material 
particular, 
commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not 
exceeding one million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding two years, or to both. 
(2) In addition to the penalty under paragraph (1), the licence of a 
person convicted of an offence under this rule shall be revoked for a 
period of not less three years. 
52. (1) A licensee commits an offence if the licensee provides 
false or misleading information about a medicinal substance that is 
supplied pursuant to the obligations in these Rules. 
(2) A person who contravenes this rule is liable, upon conviction, 
to a fine not exceeding one million shillings or to imprisonment for a 
term not exceeding two years, or to both. 
53. (1) A licensee who — 
(a) fails to inform the Board that the licensee has taken urgent 
safety restrictions on the licensee's own initiative; or 
(b) fails to implement an urgent safety restriction imposed on the 
licensee by the Board, 
commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not 
exceeding one million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding two years, or to both. 
54. (1) A person who knowingly, or having reasonable cause to 
believe, that the use, sale, supply or offer for sale or supply is 
suspended — 
(a) sells, supplies or offers to sell or supply the medicinal 
substance; or 
Transition. 
Offences in 
connection with 
application of 
parallel import 
licence. 
Provision of false 
or misleading 
information. 
Failure to comply 
with urgent safety 
restrictions. 
The offence of 
use, sale, supply, 
e.t.c of a 
suspended 
medicinal 
substance. 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 	
621 
(b) procures the sale, supplies or offers for sale or supply of the 
medicinal substance, 
commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not 
exceeding one million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding two years, or to both. 
(2) In addition to the penalty imposed under paragraph (1), the 
court may order any medicinal substance in respect of which the 
offence has been committed or which has been used for the commission 
of such offence to be forfeited. 
55.A person commits an offence if that person— 
(a) is the holder of certificate of parallel importation or licensee 
and fails to comply with any requirement or obligation in 
these Rules; 
(b) contravenes any prohibition in these Rules; or 
(c) fails to comply with any requirement imposed on a person by 
the Board pursuant to these Rules. 
General offence of 
breach of 
provisions in these 
rules. 
Form 1 
FIRST SCHEDULE 
(r.5 (1), 10(2)(a)) 
APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF PARALLEL IMPORTATION OR 
RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE OF PARALLEL IMPORTATION 
(to be submitted in six copies) 
CONFIDENTIAL 
The application shall be addressed to the Registrar, Pharmacy and Poisons Board, 
P.O. Box 27663, Nairobi 
Application (Tick as appropriate): 
Grant of new 
Renewal of 
Year 
certificate of 
certificate of 
parallel 
parallel 
importation 
importation 
Please use Block (Capitals) Letters 
1. Name of applicant 	
 
2. Physical and postal address of the company: 
(a) City/Town 	
 
(b) L.R. No 	
 
(c) Street 	
 
(d) Building 	
 
622 	
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 
(e) P.O. Box 	
 
(f) Telephone Numbers 	
 
(g) E-mail Address 	
 
3. Date of incorporation 	 .. 	
 
4. Certificate of incorporation No 	
 
5. CR12 search 	
 
6. Number and date of issue of previous certificate of parallel importation 
7. The number of employees of the company 	
 
8. Declaration (by Director/Secretary): 
I, the undersigned, hereby declare — 
(a) THAT the particulars set out herein are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge and belief; 
(b) THAT if granted certificate of parallel importation, I shall transact parallel 
importation of medicinal substances in accordance with the provisions of the 
Pharmacy and Poisons Act, Cap. 244, these rules and any rules, guidelines or 
directive as may from time to time be issued by the Board. 
Name 	
 
Signature 	
 
Date 	
 
Form 2 	
(r.11(1), 19(2(a)) 
APPLICATION FOR LICENCE OR RENEWAL OF PARALLEL IMPORTED 
MEDICINAL SUBSTANCE LICENCE/CERTIFICATE 
(to be submitted in six copies) 
CONFIDENTIAL 
The application shall be addressed to the Registrar, Pharmacy and Poisons Board, P.O. 
Box 27663, Nairobi 
Application (Tick as appropriate): 
Grant of new 
Renewal of 
(Year 
licence 
licence 
Please use Block (Capitals) Letters 
1. Name of applicant 	
 
2. Physical and postal address of the company: 
(a) City/Town 	
 
(b) L.R.No 	
 
(c) Street.... 	 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 	
623 
(d) Building 	
 
(e) P.O. Box 	
 
(t) Telephone Numbers 	
 
(g) E-mail Address 	
 
3. Certificate of Parallel Importation No. 	  
4. Number and date of issue of previous licence 	
 
5. Details of the medicinal substance to be parallel imported: 
(a) Trade Name (Proprietary Product name) 	
 
(b) International Non-Proprietary Name 	
 
(c) Strength of the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient per unit dosage of the 
product 	
 
(d) Pharmaceutical dosage form and route of administration 	
 
(e) Packaging/Pack size of the product 	
 
(f) Visual description of the product 	
 
(g) Proposed shelf-life of the product 	
 
6. Registration number of the medicinal substance in Kenya 	
 
7. Justification for importation 	
 
8. Declaration (by Director/Secretary): 
I, the undersigned, hereby declare — 
(a) THAT the particulars set out herein are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge and belief; 
(b) THAT if licensed, I shall transact parallel importation of medicinal 
substances in accordance with the provisions of the Pharmacy and Poisons 
Act, Cap. 244, these rules and any rules, guidelines or directive as may 
from time to time be issued by the Board. 
Name 	
 
Signature 	
 
Date 	
 
Form3 	
(r.11(f)) 
LETTER OF UNDERTAKING 
(to be submitted in six copies) 
CONFIDENTIAL 
Registrar, 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board, 
P.O. Box 27663, 
NAIROBI 
RE: 
624 	
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 
We undertake to ensure that all medicinal substances that we parallel import meet the 
safety, quality and efficacy standards as determined by the Board. 
Yours sincerely, 
Name and signature of applicant 
SECOND SCHEDULE 
FEES 	
(r. 10(2(b), 19(2)(b)) 
1. The following are the prescribed fees for the various licences as outlined in the table. 
Type 
Fees (Kshs) 
Application for certificate of parallel 
importation 
Application for renewal of certificate 
of parallel importation 
Application fee for a new parallel 
import licence 
Appeal 	
of 	
rejected 	
application 	
for 
parallel import licence 
Application for renewal of parallel 
import licence 
2. Any fee payable under paragraph (1) shall be paid by bankers cheque payable 
to the Board or by any other means prescribed by the Board. 
3. The prescribed fees in paragraph (1) may be reviewed by the Board from time 
to time. 
THIRD SCHEDULE 	
(r. 48) 
CONDUCT OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE PARALLEL 
IMPORTATION APPEALS COMMITTEE 
1. (1) The quorum of the Appeals Committee shall be five 
members, including the chairperson. 
Quorum. 
(2) Despite paragraph (1), members shall not be allowed to 
delegate their responsibility to their subordinate officers. 
2. (1) Decisions shall be taken by simple majority. 	
Majority decision. 
(2) In case of a tie, the proposal supported by the Chairperson 
shall prevail, and shall be signed by the members agreeing thereto. 
3. If any member of the Appeals Committee has any interest in 
Disclosure of 
any particular proceedings before the Appeals Committee, he or she 
interest. 
shall inform the Chairperson who may after considering the interest, 
appoint another person in his or her place for the purpose of that 
particular appeal. 
4. The Appeals Committee shall sit at such a place as it may 
Venue. 
consider most convenient, having regard to all the circumstances of the 
particular proceedings. 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2019 	
625 
5. Subject to the provisions of this Schedule, the Appeals 
Committee shall have power to make the rules governing procedures. 
6. A document purporting to be a copy of an order of the Appeals 
Committee and certified by the Chairperson to be a true copy thereof 
shall in any legal proceeding be prima facie evidence of that order. 
SICILY K. KARIUKI, 
Cabinet Secretary for Health. 
Rules. 
Proof of 
documents. 
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE GOVERNMENT PRINTER, NAIROBI 
