HPT/PER/GUD/091 
               Rev. No: 0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH 
PHARMACY AND POISONS BOARD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GUIDELINES ON RELIANCE MECHANISMS FOR MARKETING 
AUTHORIZATION OF HEALTH PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES IN 
KENYA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
©JANUARY, 2025
 
 
 
 
The author of this document is the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, a State 
Corporation under the Ministry of Health, Republic of Kenya. It may be 
reproduced or adopted on the condition that the recommended citation below 
is made. 
  
Recommended citation: Republic of Kenya, Ministry of Health, Pharmacy 
and Poisons Board, Guidance on Reliance for Regulatory Decision Making in 
Kenya, Version 0, 2025 
©Pharmacy and Poisons Board, 2025  
All rights reserved: 
  
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, 
or transmitted in any form, or by any means, electronic, mechanical, 
photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, without prior permission in 
writing from the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. 
  
  
For clarifications, comments, or suggestions, please contact: 
  
The Chief Executive Officer 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
P.O. Box 27663 – 00506, Nairobi 
Telephone: 0709770100 
Email: info@pharmacyboardkenya.org 
Website: www.pharmacyboardkenya.org 
 
 
 
 
 
ii
Table of Contents 
FOREWORD .................................................................................................. v 
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS ............................................................ vii 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS .............................................................................. ix 
GLOSSARY.................................................................................................... x 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION .................................................................................. 1 
1.1 
SCOPE ............................................................................................. 2 
2.0 
PRINCIPLES OF RELIANCE ................................................................. 2 
2.1 
Sovereignty: ..................................................................................... 3 
2.2 
Legal basis: ...................................................................................... 3 
2.3 
Transparency ................................................................................... 3 
2.4 
Competency ..................................................................................... 4 
2.5 
Consistency:..................................................................................... 5 
2.6 
Universality ...................................................................................... 5 
3.0 
PART 1: HEALTH PRODUCTS RELIANCE FRAMEWORK .................... 6 
3.1 
RELIANCE EVALUATION PATHWAYS .............................................. 6 
3.1.1 
Verification ................................................................................ 6 
3.1.2 
Abridged .................................................................................... 7 
3.1.3 
Joint assessment or work-sharing ............................................. 8 
3.1.4 
Recognition: ............................................................................... 8 
3.2 
ELIGIBILITY 
CRITERIA 
FOR 
SELECTION 
OF 
REFERENCE 
REGULATORY AUTHORITY OR REFERENCE INSTITUTIONS.................... 9 
3.2.1 
General Documentation Required for Reliance Applications .... 10 
3.2.2 
For biologics including vaccines, reliance on testing carried out 
by the National Reference Laboratory and/or Reference Institutions shall 
serve as a basis for Marketing Authorization. ....................................... 12 
3.2.3 
Specific Requirements for Reliance Pathways .......................... 12 
3.2.4 
RELIANCE MECHANISMS IN HANDLING VARIATIONS. .......... 17 
 
 
 
 
iii 
3.2.5 
ASSESSMENT TIMELINES ...................................................... 18 
4.0 
PART 2: RELIANCE FRAMEWORK FOR MEDICAL DEVICES AND IVDs.
 
20 
4.1 
RELIANCE MECHANISMS USED IN REGISTRATION OF MEDICAL 
DEVICES AND IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTICS ................................................. 20 
4.2 
RELIANCE PATHWAYS FOR MEDICAL DEVICES AND IVD’S ........ 20 
4.3 
RECOGNITION OF Market Authorization FOR MEDICAL DEVICES
 
22 
4.4 
REFERENCE 
REGULATORY 
AUTHORITIES 
FOR 
RELIANCE 
EVALUATION FOR MEDICAL DEVICES AND IVD’S. ................................ 23 
4.5 
RELIANCE EVALUATION PATHWAYS FOR MEDICAL DEVICES .... 24 
4.6 
ELIGIBILITY 
CRITERIA 
AND 
REQUIRED 
DOCUMENTS 
FOR 
RELIANCE EVALUATION. ........................................................................ 25 
4.6.1 
Conformity assessment process as determined by the device class
 
25 
4.7 
Regulatory pathways for pre-market conformity assessment of 
medical devices based on reliance ........................................................... 26 
4.8 
RELIANCE MECHANISMS USED IN REGISTRATION OF IN-VITRO 
DIAGNOSTICS. ........................................................................................ 32 
4.9 
Requirements for IVDs Reliance Applications ................................ 32 
4.9.1 
Abridged Evaluation of IVDs .................................................... 33 
4.10 
Turnaround time for Medical Devices and IVDs .......................... 34 
5.0 
IMPLEMENTATION MECHANISM ...................................................... 34 
6.0 
REFERENCES ................................................................................... 36 
7.0 
REVISION HISTORY .......................................................................... 37 
8.0 
LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS AND REVIEWERS .................................... 38 
9.0 
List of Annexes .................................................................................. 39 
10.0 
Links to Appendices: ...................................................................... 39 
Annex I: List of RRAs/RIs ........................................................................ 41 
 
 
 
 
iv 
Annex II: Confirmation of data sharing .................................................... 42 
Annex III: QIS-RRA-FPP ........................................................................... 43 
Annex 1V: Health Products Reliance Screening Checklist ....................... 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
v 
FOREWORD 
The guidelines on reliance mechanisms for marketing authorization of health 
products and technologies in Kenya developed by the Pharmacy and Poisons 
Board (PPB) of Kenya represents a significant step towards optimizing the 
country’s regulatory processes for health products and technologies. This 
guidance is a result of a collaborative effort between PPB staff, development 
partners, and key stakeholders, drawing on insights from international, 
regional, and local dialogues. The central objective is to maximize the effective 
use of limited resources while ensuring timely and robust regulatory 
outcomes. 
 
The concept of reliance enables National Regulatory Authorities (NRAs) in Low 
and Middle-Income Countries (LMICs) to utilize the regulatory decisions of 
Stringent Regulatory Authorities (SRAs), such as those recognized by the 
World Health Organization (WHO). This approach allows LMICs to conserve 
valuable resources by relying on the comprehensive evaluations conducted by 
SRAs, thereby reducing the need for duplicative assessments and accelerating 
approval timelines for essential health products and technologies. 
It also provides a resource-efficient alternative to the traditional, full 
assessment pathway for product approval. It focuses on products that have 
already been verified for quality, safety, and efficacy/performance in the case 
of Medical Devices. This is particularly beneficial for LMICs, as it allows them 
to prioritize national-specific regulatory activities, ensuring quicker access to 
quality health products and technologies without compromising safety. 
 
While Marketing Authorization (MA) is the most prominent regulatory 
function of focus, reliance extends beyond this to include other key areas 
including: Pharmacovigilance, Post-market surveillance, Clinical Trials and 
Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) oversight. 
 
The implementation of reliance principles will significantly enhance the 
efficiency and effectiveness of Kenya’s regulatory system. The anticipated 
benefits include; improved regulatory efficiency: Reliance reduces the time 
and resources required for local product assessments, thus enabling faster 
 
 
 
 
vi 
access to life-saving medications and technologies, stronger public health 
systems: With a streamlined regulatory process, Kenya’s preparedness and 
response capabilities during public health emergencies will be significantly 
enhanced.  Consistency in decision-making: Reliance practices ensure 
uniformity and consistency in regulatory decisions, leading to more 
predictable and transparent outcomes in product approvals. With regards to 
global collaboration and by adopting international best practices, Kenya can 
strengthen its alignment with global regulatory standards, fostering greater 
cooperation within the global health ecosystem. 
 
 
Dr. Fred M. Siyoi 
Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
vii
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 
ABRF 
African Blood Regulators Forum Biomolecular  
AMA 
African Medicines Agency 
AESI 
Adverse event of special interest 
AVAREF  
African Vaccine Regulatory Forum  
API 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
BE 
Bioequivalence 
BTP 
Biotherapeutic products 
COA 
Certificate of analysis 
CEP 
Certificate of Suitability from the European Pharmacopeia 
CPP 
Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product  
CTD 
Common Technical Document 
CV 
Curriculum Vitae 
CPQ 
   Confirmation of Prequalification 
CRO 
Clinical Research Organization 
EAC 
East African Community  
EAC- MRH 
East Africa Medicines Registration Harmonization 
EDQM 
European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and 
Healthcare 
EFTA 
European Free Trade Association 
EMA  
European Medicines Authority 
EU 
European Union 
EUA 
Emergency Use Authorization 
EUL 
Emergency Use Listed 
EU-M4ALL 
European Union Medicines for all 
EUCU 
Emergency use and compassionate use 
EPAR 
European Public Assessment Report 
DPER 
Directorate of Product Evaluation and Registration 
FPP 
Finished Pharmaceutical Product 
GCP 
Good Clinical Practices 
GMP 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
HPT 
Health Products and Technologies  
ICH 
International Conference on Harmonization (of Technical 
Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for 
Human use) 
IFU 
Instructions For Use 
ILAC 
International Laboratory Accreditation 
IR 
Immediate Route 
IVDs 
In Vitro Diagnostics 
 
 
 
 
viii
Japan 
(MHLW 
/PMDA) 
Japan, 
Ministry 
of 
Health 
Labour 
and 
Welfare/ 
Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency. 
IGAD 
Intergovernmental Authority on Development  
  LMIC 
Low- and Middle-income country 
LTR 
Local technical representative 
NCL 
National control laboratory 
NMRA 
National Medicines Regulatory Authorities 
MA 
Marketing Authorization  
MAGHP 
Swiss medic Marketing Authorization for Global Health 
Products  
MAH 
Marketing Authorization Holder 
MHRA 
Medicines and Health Products Regulatory Agency 
MRH 
Medicines Regulatory Harmonization 
PASS 
Post authorization safety studies 
PIDM 
Program for International Drug Monitoring  
PIC/S 
Pharmaceutical Inspection Cooperation Scheme 
PIL 
Patient information leaflet 
PPB 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
PQT 
Pre-Qualification Team 
PRIMS 
PPB Regulatory Information Management System 
PV 
Pharmacovigilance  
QC  
Quality Control 
QIS 
Quality information summary 
REC 
   Regional economic communities 
RI 
   Reference institution  
RMNCH 
   Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn and Child Health  
RMP 
Risk management program 
RRA 
Reference Regulatory authority 
SF 
Substandard and Falsified 
SmPC 
Summary of Product Characteristics  
SRA 
Stringent Regulatory Authority  
UHC 
Universal Health Coverage  
UMC 
Uppsala Monitoring Centre 
US FDA 
US Food and Drug Administration 
WHO 
World Health Organization 
WHO-PQ 
World Health Organization Prequalification 
WLA 
WHO -listed Authorities 
 
 
 
 
 
ix 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS   
The PPB acknowledges the support of the Kenyan Ministry of Health for policy 
direction and enabling international conventions supporting reliance 
mechanisms in Kenya, the World Health Organization (WHO) for its leadership 
on reliance frameworks and whose reliance document formed the basis of 
developing this document, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for financial 
support under the Last Authorization Mile and Backlog Clearance Project-
Kenya, the African Medicines Agency (AMA) for spearheading the continental 
reliance mechanisms, and WHO Listed Authorities for serving as regulatory 
references. 
 
In particular, the Board appreciates its staff from the Product Evaluation and 
Registration for their efforts in ensuring these guidelines was completed and 
effective implementation to ensure efficient registration of Health Products 
and Technologies.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
x
GLOSSARY 
Definitions listed below are essential to ensure a common understanding of 
concepts and clarity in interpreting guidance on reliance.  
Abridged 
regulatory 
pathways 
Regulatory procedures facilitated by reliance, whereby a 
regulatory decision is solely or partially based on application 
of reliance. It is expected that use of reliance in these pathways 
will save resources and time as compared with standard 
pathways, while ensuring that the standards of regulatory 
oversight are maintained  
Assessment 
For this document, this term covers any evaluation conducted 
for a regulatory function (e.g., evaluation of a clinical trial 
application or of an initial marketing authorization for a 
medical product or any subsequent post-authorization 
changes, evaluation of safety data, evaluation as part of an 
inspection).  
Authority 
Refers to Pharmacy and Poisons Board, also referred to as the 
Board. 
Emergency Use 
Authorization: 
Emergency use means a mechanism to facilitate the 
availability and use of medical countermeasures upon 
declaration of public health emergencies i.e. the use of a 
medicine (therapeutic), vaccine, or in vitro diagnostic or 
medical device) on patients in a life-threatening situation or 
condition, including chemical, biological, radiological, or 
nuclear attack, in which no standard treatment or diagnostic 
is available, and there is no sufficient time to obtain product 
registration.  
Equivalence of 
regulatory 
systems: 
Implies strong similarity between two regulatory systems, as 
mutually established and documented through objective 
evidence. Equivalence can be established using criteria and 
approaches such as similarity of the regulatory framework and 
practices, adherence to the same international standards and 
guidelines, experience gained in use of assessments for 
regulatory decision making, joint activities and exchanges of 
staff. It is expected that equivalent regulatory systems will 
result in similar standards and levels of regulatory oversight 
or “control”.  
Expedited 
Pathway 
Reliance pathway designed for higher-risk devices that have 
prior approvals from multiple reference regulatory agencies 
and meet specific criteria. They are fast-tracked for urgent or 
breakthrough treatment or diagnostics. 
 
 
 
 
xi 
Immediate 
Pathway 
This pathway allows for automatic or near-instant recognition 
of a medical device or IVD if it has been approved by a stringent 
regulatory authority. 
International 
standards and 
guidelines: 
For this document, the term includes relevant WHO standards 
and guidelines and any other relevant internationally 
recognized standards (e.g., International Organization for 
Standardization or pharmacopeial standards) and guidelines 
(e.g., International Council on Harmonization of Technical 
Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use [ICH] or 
guidelines of the Pharmaceutical Inspection Convention and 
Pharmaceutical Inspection Cooperation Scheme [PIC/S]).  
In 
Vitro 
Diagnostics 
A medical device, used alone or in combination, intended by 
the manufacturer for the in vitro examination of specimens 
derived from the human body solely or principally to provide 
information for diagnostic, monitoring or compatibility 
purposes. 
Joint 
assessment/ 
Work-sharing: 
A process by which NRAs of two or more jurisdictions share 
activities to accomplish a specific regulatory task. The 
opportunities for work- sharing include joint assessment of 
applications for authorization of clinical trials or marketing 
authorizations, joint inspections for good practices, joint post 
marketing surveillance of the quality and safety of medical 
products, joint development of technical guidelines or 
regulatory standards and collaboration on information 
platforms and technology.  
Medical Device Any instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, appliance, 
implant, reagent for in vitro use, software, material or other 
similar or related article, intended by the manufacturer to be 
used, alone or in combination, for human beings, for one or 
more of the specific medical purposes (s) of:  
a. diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation 
of disease, 
b. diagnosis, 
monitoring, 
treatment, 
alleviation 
of 
or 
compensation for an injury,  
c. investigation, replacement, modification, or support of the 
anatomy or of a physiological process,  
d. supporting or sustaining life, 
e. control of conception,  
f. disinfection of medical devices,  
g. providing information by means of in vitro examination of 
specimens derived from the human body;  
h. disinfection substances, i. aids for persons with disabilities, 
devices incorporating animal and/or human tissues, 
i. k. Devices for in-vitro fertilization or assisted reproduction 
technologies.  
 
 
 
 
 
xii
Mutual 
recognition 
agreement:   
A principle of international law whereby states party to mutual 
recognition agreements recognize and uphold legal decisions 
taken by competent authorities in another member state. 
Mutual recognition is a process which allows conformity 
assessments (such as, of qualifications and product) carried 
out in one country to be recognized in another country. 
Recognition: 
Acceptance of the regulatory decision of another regulator or 
trusted institution. Recognition should be based on evidence 
that the regulatory requirements of the reference regulatory 
authority are sufficient to meet the regulatory requirements of 
the relying authority. Recognition may be unilateral or mutual 
and may, in the latter case, be the subject of a mutual 
recognition agreement.  
Reference 
Regulatory 
Authority: 
A regulatory authority whose regulatory decisions and/or 
regulatory work processes are relied upon by another 
regulatory authority to inform its own regulatory decisions.  
Reference 
Institution  
Continental/Regional authority or a trusted institution such 
as WHO prequalification (WHO PQ) whose regulatory decisions 
and/or regulatory work processes are relied upon by another 
regulatory authority to inform its own regulatory decisions. 
Regional 
regulatory 
system: 
A system composed of individual regulatory authorities, or a 
regional body composed of individual regulatory authorities, 
operating under a common regulatory framework but not 
necessarily under a common legal framework. The common 
framework must at least ensure equivalence among the 
members in terms of regulatory requirements, practices and 
quality assurance policies. The system or regional body may 
have enforcement powers to ensure compliance with the 
common regulatory framework.  
Reliance: 
The act whereby the regulatory authority in one jurisdiction 
takes into account and gives significant weight to assessments 
performed by another regulatory authority or trusted 
institution, or to any other authoritative information, in 
reaching its own decision. The relying authority remains 
independent, responsible and accountable for the decisions 
taken, even when it relies on the decisions, assessments and 
information of others.  
Reliance 
Pathways  
An alternative application or assessment pathway used by the 
authority 
in 
its 
regulatory 
decision-making 
regarding 
marketing authorization of a product based on assessment 
outcomes 
of 
Reference 
regulatory 
authority 
(ies) 
or 
institutions. 
 
Sameness 
of 
product: 
For this document, sameness of product means that two 
products have identical essential characteristics (i.e., the 
product being submitted to the relying authority and the 
product approved by the reference regulatory authority should 
 
 
 
 
xiii
be the same). Sameness does not need to be represented by 
identical manufacturing sites but rather product should be 
under same quality system.  
All relevant aspects of drugs, medical devices and in vitro 
diagnostics, including those related to the quality of the 
product and its components, should be considered to confirm 
that the product is the same or sufficiently similar (e.g. same 
qualitative and quantitative composition, same strength, same 
pharmaceutical 
form, 
same 
intended 
use, 
same 
manufacturing 
process, 
same 
suppliers 
of 
active 
pharmaceutical ingredients, same quality of all excipients). 
Additionally, the results of supporting studies of safety, 
efficacy and quality, indications and conditions of use should 
be the same. The impact of potential justified differences 
should be assessed by the manufacturer (for the purpose of 
this 
document, 
manufacturer 
also 
means 
marketing 
authorization holder) and the relying national regulatory 
authority (NRA) in determining the possibility of using foreign 
regulatory assessments or decisions.  
This could also be applied when assessing Medical Devices and 
IVDs whereas the performance of the medical device should 
confirm for sameness.  
Secondary 
Review: 
Refers to where NRAs may perform secondary reviews of the 
shared assessment and inspection outcomes from the PQT or 
reference NRA. Moreover, this approach may be essential 
where the NRA is involved or participates in the initial reviews, 
for example, joint reviews between the NRA and the PQT or in 
special access mechanisms by reference SRAs that have 
provisions for NRA participation. As a result, the NRA’s input 
may be incorporated into the final decision of the PQT or the 
reference SRA, thereby facilitating a concurrent regulatory 
decision where a parallel submission has been made. 
 
Stringent 
regulatory 
authority: 
A regulatory authority which is:  
a. a member of the International Council for Harmonization 
of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for 
Human Use (ICH), being the European Commission, the 
US Food and Drug Administration and the Ministry of 
Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan also represented by 
the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (as 
before 23 October 2015); or  
b. an ICH observer, being the European Free Trade 
Association, as represented by Swissmedic, and Health 
Canada (as before 23 October 2015); or  
c. a regulatory authority associated with an ICH member 
through a legally-binding, mutual recognition agreement, 
 
 
 
 
xiv
including Australia, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway 
(as before 23 October 2015) 
Trusted 
Institution: 
Means a regional or international institution that is involved 
in assessment and approval (prequalification) of medicines for 
human use such as WHO prequalification (WHO PQ), IGAD, 
AMA, EMA, EAC etc whose assessment outcomes or regulatory 
decisions are relied upon by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board  
 
Unilateral 
Recognition:  
When a country chooses to rely on or formally recognize an 
assessment from another country unilaterally and without 
reciprocity. 
 
Verified review 
 
A streamlined review based primarily on verifying, instead of 
evaluating, information submitted in the application against 
information which has already been approved by WHO or a 
Recognised Regulatory Authority. Note that un-redacted 
reports are required for verified reviews as a fall-back option 
for evaluators. 
WHO 
listed 
authorities 
A WHO Listed Authority (WLA) is a regulatory authority (RA) or 
a regional regulatory system (RRS) that complies with all the 
relevant indicators and requirements specified by WHO for 
regulatory 
capability 
as 
defined 
by 
an 
established 
benchmarking and performance evaluation process. A 
regulatory authority provides the framework that supports the 
WHO recommended regulatory functions. This is the authority 
and affiliated institutions that are responsible for regulatory 
oversight of medical products in a given country or region and 
in charge of assuring the quality, safety and efficacy of medical 
products as well as ensuring the relevance and accuracy of 
product information. 
Reference 
Regulatory 
Authority 
for 
Medical Devices 
A reference regulatory Authority (RRA) is a regulatory authority 
or a regional regulatory system such as the European union 
that complies with all the relevant indicators and requirements 
for the regulation of medical devices. This authority and 
affiliated institutions are responsible for regulatory oversight 
of medical devices in a given country or jurisdiction and 
responsible for ensuring the quality, safety and performance. 
The RRA is a member of the International medical devices 
regulators forums, and whose regulatory decisions can be 
relied upon by the PPB.     
 
 
 
 
1
1.0 
INTRODUCTION  
This document provides guidance on the modalities, processes, and 
procedures employed by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board (PPB) to implement 
reliance and/or utilize relevant Marketing Authorization (MA) decisions, 
reports, or information from other National Regulatory Authorities (NRAs), 
regional, and international bodies. 
 
The PPB, recognizing the principles of Good Reliance Practices as outlined by 
the World Health Organization (WHO), strives to strengthen its regulatory 
system through efficient and effective reliance strategies. This approach 
enables the PPB to leverage the expertise and resources of other competent 
authorities while focusing its efforts on value-added activities crucial for the 
Kenyan market, such as, Vigilance by monitoring the safety and effectiveness 
of medicines post-market, Market Surveillance by ensuring the quality and 
authenticity of HPTs in the Kenyan market, Local Manufacturing and 
Distribution by supporting and overseeing the growth of local pharmaceutical 
industries, and Quality Control that enhances the quality assurance of HPTs 
through robust laboratory testing and inspection programs. 
 
Reliance approaches facilitate timely access to safe, effective, and quality-
assured HPTs for the Kenyan population. They are particularly valuable 
during public health emergencies, enabling rapid regulatory responses. 
 
In today's dynamic global healthcare landscape, NRAs face numerous 
challenges, including: globalization of markets, rapid advancements in health 
products and technologies, evolving regulatory science, Complex supply 
chains and growing public expectations and resource constraints including 
limited human, financial, and infrastructural resources. 
 
These challenges underscore the critical need for international cooperation to 
ensure the safety, quality, and efficacy/effectiveness of HPTs in Kenya. By 
embracing enhanced collaboration and reliance strategies, the PPB aims to:  
 
 
 
 
 
2
a) Optimize resource utilization by avoiding unnecessary duplication of 
efforts and focus resources on areas of greatest need. 
b) Leverage on international expertise by gaining access to the knowledge and 
experience of other competent authorities. 
c) Facilitate timely access to medicines by ensuring timely availability of 
essential and innovative medicines for the Kenyan population 
d) Strengthen regulatory capacity by enhancing the PPB's scientific and 
technical capabilities through knowledge exchange and training. 
The attainment of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in Kenya hinges on the 
availability of quality-assured medicines and health technologies. PPB is 
committed to strengthening its regulatory system through strategic reliance 
partnerships to ensure access to quality, safe, efficacious medicines and 
effective medical devices and IVD’s for all Kenyans. 
1.1 
SCOPE 
This guidance provides a framework to marketing authorization holders on 
the requirements for registration using the reliance principles for medicines, 
vaccines, blood and blood products, food supplements, herbal products, 
cosmetics, medical devices, and in-vitro-diagnostics.   
The guideline is applicable to evaluations for initial marketing authorization, 
post-approval changes, and renewals of applications submitted under both 
routine and non-routine (EUCU) procedures in Pharmacy and Poisons Board. 
This guidance is not applicable to applications for donations and unregistered 
HPTs. 
Reliance practices can also be used for quality audits of medical devices using 
the medical devices single audit program (MDSAP). 
 
 
2.0 
PRINCIPLES OF RELIANCE  
The adopted principles of reliance are in line with the WHO recommendations 
and PPB will use these to optimize innovative and more effective forms of 
collaboration to make the best use of the available resources and expertise, 
avoid duplication to ensure quality, safe and efficacious Health Products and 
Technologies. 
 
 
 
 
3
For further guidance, please refer to “Good reliance practices in the regulation 
of medical products: high level principles and considerations” Annex 10 
contained in Fifty-fifth report of the WHO Expert Committee on Specifications 
for Pharmaceutical Preparations.  
There are six (6) high level principles of reliance that are intended to 
complement and extend the basic principles of good reliance practices. These 
principles are: Sovereignty of decision making, respect for national and 
regional legal bases, transparency, universality, consistency and competence. 
2.1 
Sovereignty:  
Reliance is a sovereign decision. The Board will decide when and how to use 
reliance and in which circumstances. In implementing reliance, the Board 
shall maintain its independence, sovereignty and accountability in regulatory 
decision making.   
2.2 
Legal basis:  
The legal basis for reliance procedure is anchored under Sections 3A(c) and 
3B(r) of the Pharmacy and Poisons Act CAP 244, the pharmacy and poisons 
(registration of health products and technologies) rules, 2022 -rule No 7 on 
Collaborative measures when processing application for registration and the 
EAC Corporation Protocol for Medicines Harmonization Program 2018. 
2.3 
Transparency  
The board will implement reliance mechanisms through unselective 
application of the law, guidelines and procedures by all the parties involved 
in regulation. The Board, as relying on NRA, shall provide to all parties clearly 
defined standards, processes and approaches adopted in implementing 
reliance measures.  
The approaches undertaken by the Board in implementation of the reliance 
system shall include all aspects of quality and transparency including 
screening, evaluation by first Assessor, second Assessor and quality 
assurance steps as defined in PPB quality management system. Regulatory 
decisions made through reliance shall be published and made available by 
PPB for purposes of information sharing. 
 
 
 
 
4
The Board shall make use of published information from the websites of 
reference NRAs or other relevant organizations where applicable as primary 
sources of information for assessment of applications.  
In some cases, the Board may request manufacturers or applicants to provide 
assessment reports and any other information that may make it easier for the 
implementation of reliance approach. The Board may ask a manufacturer or 
an applicant to give consent, for a reference agency to provide it with 
assessment reports that may not be already published.  
2.4 
Competency  
The Board shall use its available technical competencies to undertake critical 
decision making for the proper implementation of the reliance guidelines. 
The competency framework and curricula are useful tools to identify and 
develop training programmes for regulators at different levels. At PBB, all 
training programmes will incorporate tools that facilitate regulatory reliance, 
such as mutual recognition agreements, regulatory reliance principles and 
the WHO prequalification process.  
The adoption of common competence requirements and performance 
standards at the national, regional and continental level, using standardized 
assessment tools, will enable regional, continental and international 
collaborations and reliance among NRAs as per the Global Competency 
Framework for Regulators of Medicines.  
These competencies shall be built through the following but not limited to; 
i. 
Training programmes 
ii. 
Benchmarking against the reference authorities processes to build 
trust on capacities 
iii. 
Induction training of new assessors by experienced assessors 
iv. 
On job training for assessors  
v. 
Attachment of assessor at WHO dossier assessment sessions 
vi. 
Participation of assessors in WHO dossier assessment activities 
vii. 
Participation of assessors in EAC dossier assessment activities 
viii. 
Participation of assessors in IGAD dossier assessment sessions 
 
 
 
 
5
ix. 
Bilateral engagement with sister NRAs 
x. 
Involvement of technical experts in dossier assessment 
xi. 
Participation of assessors in WHO-Collaborative registration 
Procedures for In-Vitro Diagnostics. 
2.5 
Consistency:  
The Board shall implement a clearly defined process for practising reliance 
that will be transparent and predictable. The Board plans to develop an online 
for tracking reliance applications and timelines to market authorization. 
Reliance shall be applied consistently for products/ processes in the same 
predetermined categories. 
 
2.6 
Universality 
Reliance applies to all NRAs irrespective of their levels of maturity or 
resources. Reliance is relevant for all resource settings and different NRAs use 
reliance for different reasons. For example, some use it to increase technical 
in-house capacity. Others use to get expertise they do not have locally.
 
 
 
 
6
3.0 
PART 1: HEALTH PRODUCTS RELIANCE FRAMEWORK 
3.1 
RELIANCE EVALUATION PATHWAYS  
Reliance-based evaluations are based on the level of risk that the agency is 
prepared to accept. The implementation of this risk-based evaluation shall 
consider criteria such as the number and location of prior approvals, the 
length of time a product may have been on the market, the quality (similarity) 
of the product, local public health needs and priorities, level of resources and 
expertise available in a NRA and unmet medical needs. 
Reliance based applications are reviewed by the board through the following 
Four (4) types of assessment pathways: Verification, Abridged, Joint 
assessment or work sharing and recognition 
3.1.1 Verification  
In verification reviews, the agency recognises a previous authorisation of a 
product by a reference or benchmark agency. In this process, the agency 
validates this prior review while ensuring that the product conforms to local 
requirements and authorised product specifications. 
Verification is based primarily on verifying, instead of evaluating, information 
submitted against information which has already been approved by a 
reference regulatory authority. 
The board shall undertake verification assessment of the product 
information/dossier submitted for registration to ensure that the HPT is the 
same as the one that has been approved by the reference regulatory authority.  
Sameness of a product shall be confirmed as follows: 
i. 
The submitted product for marketing authorization shall have 
the same qualitative and quantitative formulation as the one 
approved by the reference regulatory authority.  
ii. 
The products seeking approval shall have the same 
manufacturing site(s) for API and FPP including specific 
block(s)/unit(s), chain, processes, control of materials and 
final product, and in the case of vaccines also by the same 
batch release scheme. Any additional sites, regardless of their 
GMP status, are not acceptable under this procedure. Any 
 
 
 
 
7
changes or variations to include additional sites should be 
approved by the reference regulatory authority before 
inclusion in the dossier application. 
iii. 
The product seeking marketing authorization with the board 
should have the same specifications for excipient, API and FPP 
as the one approved in the reference regulatory authority.  
iv. 
The two products should have the same essential elements of 
product information. (The essential elements of product 
information will include the indications, contraindications, 
posology (dosing), special warnings and precautions for use, 
adverse reactions, storage conditions, primary packaging, and 
shelf life.  
v. 
For pharmaceutical products, differences in brand name, the 
name of the applicant, language, format, and degree of detail 
of the product information, labelling of primary, secondary, 
and tertiary packaging, among others, are not considered 
essential for the purposes of this Procedure.  
vi. 
The 
manufacturer 
should 
consider 
country 
specific 
requirements such as product stability data according to the 
stability zone and the local product labelling requirements. 
Verification is particularly applicable for products approved under WHO-CRP, 
those assessed and accepted under EAC, IGAD and AMA. 
3.1.2 Abridged  
When using an abridged review, the agency conducts a more detailed 
assessment, relies on prior evaluations to inform local decisions, evaluating 
the product under local conditions and regulatory requirements. 
This review is based primarily on full assessment reports (if available) from 
RRAs, replacing the need to evaluate all data (and summaries thereof) 
submitted in support of an application. 
 
In case where full assessment report from the reference regulatory authority 
is not available, the Board may accept the decisions of these authorities or 
 
 
 
 
8
institutions based on a partial review of selected sections and/or modules of 
the application dossier. 
This approach applies to products evaluated and approved by SRA, WLA, and 
regional economic communities (such as Zazibona, WAHO, NAMRH) etc.  
Additionally, abridged assessment will be conducted for products (Vaccines, 
In-Vitro Diagnostics or treatments that are yet to be licenced but have been 
listed under the WHO-EUL (WHO-emergency use Listing procedures) whose 
information is not yet fully available due to the nature of the procedure being 
to facilitate availability of information during a public health emergency of 
international concern (PHEIC). 
 
Documentation and guidance for application required for Emergency use are 
available in PPB guideline HPT/PER/GUD/024 Rev. 3. 
3.1.3 Joint assessment or work-sharing  
Under this pathway, the Board will engage in joint assessments or work-
sharing arrangements with one or more regulatory authorities. This process 
will involve a primary review conducted by one authority, a secondary review 
by another authority, and a collaborative joint assessment session to finalize 
the assessment report and address any comments.  
This approach applies to products evaluated and approved by the African 
Medicines Regulatory Harmonization Initiative (AMRH), the African Medicines 
Agency (AMA), East African Community Medicine Regulatory Harmonization 
(EAC-MRH), the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), EU 
Medicines for All (EU-M4ALL) procedure and Swiss medic’s Marketing 
Authorization for Global Health Products (MAGHP).  
3.1.4 Recognition:   
Recognition, is the routine acceptance of the regulatory decision of another 
regulator or other trusted institution. Recognition indicates that evidence of 
conformity with the regulatory requirements of country A is sufficient to meet 
the regulatory requirements of country B.  
Under this pathway, the board shall undertake registration/approval process, 
based on directly recognizing the outcome of review from a reference 
 
 
 
 
9
regulatory authority with which the pharmacy and poisons board shares a 
recognition agreement. 
Also, the Board may choose to rely on or formally recognize an assessment 
from another reference regulatory authority unilaterally and without 
reciprocity. Similarity between the local context is important for this 
pathway/approach. 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board may specify the NRA(s) or institutions whose 
decision it recognizes. 
Note: PPB is currently in the process of negotiating recognition agreements 
with reference regulatory authorities and will thereafter develop mutual 
recognition agreements.  
The abridged and verification review processes do NOT involve an abbreviated 
application – all data and information required for a full review should be 
submitted, i.e. the full CTD module structure. Evaluators may still need to 
review data in the dossier as required. 
3.2 
ELIGIBILITY 
CRITERIA 
FOR 
SELECTION 
OF 
REFERENCE
 
REGULATORY AUTHORITY OR REFERENCE INSTITUTIONS  
Regulatory authorities or institutions shall fulfil the following criteria to be 
included 
in 
the 
list 
of 
PPB 
recognized 
reference 
regulatory 
authorities/reference institutions.  
a) Shall publish detailed information on the approved medicines (like 
public assessment report, labelling information and regulatory action, 
deferred or rejected product information) on its website or include in 
the approved or qualified list of medicines throughout the product life 
cycle as applicable  
b) Member of the International Council for Harmonization of Technical 
Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH), and/or an ICH 
observer,  
c) National 
regulatory 
authority 
or 
institution 
that 
has 
signed 
memorandum of understanding or legally binding agreement with PPB. 
The institution for bilateral agreement must have attained WHO ML3 
and above   
 
 
 
 
10
d) World Health Organization collaborative registration procedures (WHO-
CRP, SRA-CRP and WHO-EUL). 
e) WHO Listed Authorities (WLAs)/SRA 
f) WHO Transitional WLAs (Category A, B and C)- Category A - ML3 & ML4 
NRAs for vaccines only, Category B- SRA and Category C- Highly 
performing NRA (Vaccines) 
g) Continental assessment forums (e.g., AMA, AVAREF, ABRF, ). 
h) Regional Economic communities Regulatory Harmonization (e.g., EAC-
MRH, 
IGAD, 
ZAZIBONA, 
West 
African 
Medicine 
Regulatory 
Harmonization (WA-MRH)). 
i) Global health programs such as EMA under article 58 and through the 
Swiss medic’s Marketing Authorization for Global Health products or 
the International Generic Drug Regulatory Programme (Swissmedic, 
Health Canada and EU Medicine for all)  
j) Member of the International Medical Devices Regulators Forum as a 
founding member country. 
Note: The list of Reference Regulatory Authorities shall be reviewed 
from time to time based on WHO updates of WLA, changes in regulatory 
environment and adoption of best practices.   
3.2.1 General Documentation Required for Reliance Applications  
a) Application dossiers should be only for products assessed and accepted 
by the reference regulatory authorities or reference institutions.  
b) The applicant should declare the “sameness” of the reference regulatory 
authority or reference institution-approved medicine with the one 
applied for marketing authorization of medicine by the authority. These 
shall include, but not limited to:   
i. 
qualitative and quantitative formulation,   
ii. 
manufacturing site(s) for API and FPP including specific 
block(s)/unit(s),   
iii. 
processes, control of materials and final product,   
iv. 
in the case of vaccines, batch release/ lot release scheme,   
v. 
specifications for excipient, API and FPP,   
 
 
 
 
11
vi. 
essential elements of product information (SMPC, PIL, Primary 
packaging and secondary packaging).  
c) If any differences exist between the dossier submitted to PPB and the 
dossier submitted to a recognized regulatory authority or institution, all 
such differences should be clearly indicated and justified.  
d) The submitted product should be prequalified and/or registered and 
marketed in the market of at least one of the reference regulatory 
authority’s countries, except for products prequalified by WHO jointly 
assessed products.  
e) The applicant should provide the “Quality information summary” 
together with the dossier. 
f) The 
reference 
regulatory 
authority(s)or 
reference 
institutions 
assessment reports or at least access or link to the portal on the web 
site of the reference regulatory authority should be provided.  
g) Commitment letter to notify the Board when there is pending variation, 
withdrawal from the market or banned by reference regulatory or 
reference institution due to any notice of concern. 
h) Copy of valid GMP issued by PPB, laboratory testing report (where 
applicable), and safety report (where applicable). 
i) Full modules with CTD document as per the Guideline for Registration 
of Medicines.  
j) A declaration indicating that any post approval changes were reported 
and accepted by the reference regulatory authority or reference 
institution. This declaration should include the list of variations not yet 
accepted by reference regulatory authority or reference institution and 
section of the dossier affected by the accepted variations.  
k) A copy of the marketing authorization, or the equivalent thereof, issued 
by the reference NRA or institution to demonstrate that the product is 
registered or licensed in accordance with the reference NRA or 
institution requirements. If applicable, a copy of the latest renewal of 
the marketing authorization should also be provided.  
l) Public assessment report(s) and/or final acceptance letter issued by the 
NRA or institution such as the Scientific Discussion of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR), issued by the reference NRAs or 
 
 
 
 
12
institution. Assessment report(s) issued by the reference SRA that are 
not publicly available may be requested.  
m) Written confirmation of permission for sharing confidential information 
generated by the RRA/RI with the relying authority (the PPB (see Annex 
II)). 
n) Samples of the medical product from commercial batches, to be 
submitted to support the application. 
3.2.2 For biologics including vaccines, reliance on testing carried out by 
the National Reference Laboratory and/or Reference Institutions 
shall serve as a basis for Marketing Authorization.  
o) Submission of the application dossier should be through PPB product’s 
portal.  
3.2.3 Specific Requirements for Reliance Pathways 
3.2.3.1 WHO 
Collaborative 
Registration 
Procedure 
(WHO-
CRP/SRA-CRP) 
Applicants wishing to use this registration route should proceed as follows: 
a) The medicines for which application is submitted to PPB should be in 
the list of WHO prequalified products on the WHO website ( 
https://extranet.who.int/prequal/content/prequalified-lists ) 
b) Notify WHO/the SRA of their intention to use this Procedure for 
registration of a particular product by sending the appropriate 
notification form (Appendix 2/Appendix 3, Part A) to WHO/the SRA, as 
outlined on the WHO website. If the applicant for national registration 
is different from the manufacturer with a prequalified product/SRA-
approved product, the mutual agreement between the applicant and the 
manufacturer is necessary and the notification to WHO/the SRA has to 
be sent by the manufacturer. 
c) Follow the national guidance to applicants for registration as provided 
for by PPB registration guidelines. More importantly, the following 
should be considered: 
i. 
The PPB-prescribed Application form  
 
 
 
 
13
ii. 
“WHO Collaborative Procedure”/“SRA Collaborative Procedure” 
should be indicated as the proposed registration pathway in the 
PPB product online portal and in the covering letter. 
iii. 
 Must submit the Expression of Interest form (Appendix 3 Part A), 
as outlined on the WHO website. 
iv. 
The technical content of the dossier has to correspond exactly to 
that submitted and currently approved by the PQT/SRA and as 
specified in the corresponding Procedure guidelines. The dossier 
has to be updated to reflect all post-prequalification variations 
approved by the PQT/SRA and accompanied by the appropriate 
current quality information summary (QIS) (Annex III). All 
variations still pending at the PQT/SRA have to be notified, and 
deviations from the prequalified product have to be clearly 
declared in the Expression of Interest form (Appendix 3 Part A). 
v. 
 Additional requirements are: 
(i) A valid GMP certificate from PPB.   
(ii) Application fee per product. 
(iii) 
Stability data as per ICH climatic conditions for zone 
IVb 
(iv) The requirements on samples stays in place 
(v) Labelling requirements as per PPB guidelines. 
d) Pre-registration QC testing by the PPB recognised Laboratory is not 
required for this procedure. Instead, post-registration risk-based 
testing will be carried out by the applicant.  
e) In situations where the applicant wishes to apply the Procedure to an 
application that is already pending with PPB (applied through the 
National pathway), the applicant should first update the dossier to 
ensure that the technical part of the information is the same as that 
currently approved by the PQT/SRA, as applicable. 
f) The post-prequalification variations should be submitted to PPB within 
90 working days from the PQT/SRA approval. The PQT/SRA approval 
letter should be attached. 
In case of questions/requests related to the CRP, the PPB’s focal person’s 
contact information is as follows, reliance@ppb.go.ke  
 
 
 
 
14
Note: Applications submitted for products assessed and approved by WHO-
CRP shall undergo verification/Abridged assessment.  
3.2.3.2  WHO Listed Authority (WLA)/ Stringent Regulatory 
Authority (SRA) 
Applicants wishing to use this registration route should proceed as follows: 
a) The PPB-prescribed Application form  
b) “SRA Pathway” should be indicated as the proposed registration 
pathway in the PPB product online portal. 
c) Must submit the Expression of Interest addressed to the Chief 
Executive Officer. 
d) The technical content of the dossier has to correspond exactly to that 
submitted and currently approved by the WLA/SRA and as specified in 
the corresponding Procedure guidelines. The dossier has to be updated 
to reflect all post-approval variations approved by the WLA/SRA and 
accompanied by the appropriate current quality information summary 
(QIS). All variations still pending at the WLA/SRA have to be notified, 
and deviations from the approved product have to be clearly declared 
in the Expression of Interest letter. 
e) Submit the RRA detailed assessment reports, inspection reports and 
endorsed or validated quality information summary (Annex 4) as well as 
bridging reports (Appendix 6 ; Refer to WHO) if applicable. 
f) Additional requirements are: 
i. 
WLA/RRA Approval letter/Marketing authorisation  
ii. 
A valid GMP certificate from PPB.  
iii. 
Application fee per product. 
iv. 
Stability data as per ICH climatic conditions for zone IVb 
v. 
The requirements on samples stays in place 
vi. 
Labelling requirements as per PPB guidelines. 
g) Pre-registration testing from a PPB recognized Laboratoty or a WHO 
prequalified laboratory is a requirement for this procedure. 
h) In situations where the applicant wishes to apply the Procedure to an 
application that is already pending with PPB (applied through the 
National pathway), the applicant should first update the dossier to 
 
 
 
 
15
ensure that the technical part of the information is the same as that 
currently approved by the WLA/SRA, as applicable. 
i) The post-marketing Authorization variations should be submitted to 
PPB within 90 working days from the WLA/SRA approval. The 
WLA/SRA approval letter should be attached. 
In case of questions/requests related to the CRP, the PPB’s focal person’s 
contact information is as follows:reliance@ppb.go.ke  
Note: Applications submitted for products assessed and approved by 
WLA/SRA shall undergo Abridged assessment.  
 
3.2.3.3 WHO Listed Authority (WLA)/ Reference Regulatory 
Authority (RRA) with which PPB has a mutual recognition 
agreement.  
Pharmacy and Poisons Board will continuously publish a list of NRAs that 
Kenya has signed mutual or bilateral agreement in the PPB website  
Applicants to confirm from the list of NRAs from the PPB website that have 
mutual or bilateral agreement with PPB. 
The applicants shall then submit applications based on the documentation 
required as follows: 
a) The PPB-prescribed Application form  
b) “SRA Pathway” should be indicated as the proposed registration 
pathway in the PPB product online portal. 
c) Must submit the Expression of Interest addressed to the Chief 
Executive Officer. 
d) The technical content of the dossier has to correspond exactly to that 
submitted and currently approved by the WLA/RRA and as specified in 
the corresponding Procedure guidelines. The dossier has to be updated 
to reflect all post-approval variations approved by the WLA/RRA and 
accompanied by the appropriate current quality information summary 
(QIS). All variations still pending at the WLA/RRA have to be notified, 
and deviations from the approved product have to be clearly declared 
in the Expression of Interest letter. 
 
 
 
 
16
e) Submit the RRA detailed assessment reports, inspection reports and 
endorsed or validated quality information summary (Annex 4) as well as 
Bridging reports (Appendix 6 ; Refer to WHO) if applicable. 
f)  Additional requirements are: 
i. 
WLA/RRA Approval letter/Marketing authorisation  
ii. 
A valid GMP certificate from PPB.  
iii. 
Application fee per product. 
iv. 
Stability data as per ICH climatic conditions for zone IVb 
v. 
The requirements on samples stays in place 
vi. 
Labelling requirements as per PPB guidelines. 
g) In situations where the applicant wishes to apply the Procedure to an 
application that is already pending with PPB (applied through the 
National pathway), the applicant should first update the dossier to 
ensure that the technical part of the information is the same as that 
currently approved by the PQT/SRA, as applicable. 
h) The post-marketing Authorization variations should be submitted to 
PPB within 90 working days from the WLA/SRA approval. The 
WLA/SRA approval letter should be attached. 
i) In case of questions/requests related to the CRP, the PPB’s focal 
person’s contact information is as follows: reliance@ppb.go.ke  
Note: Applications submitted for products assessed and approved by 
WLA/SRA that have mutual agreement with PPB shall undergo verification 
assessment.  
3.2.3.4  Regional joint assessment (AMA, EAC-MRH, IGAD, 
ZAZIBONA, 
West 
African 
Medicine 
Regulatory 
Harmonization (WA-MRH)) 
a) A letter of approval from AMA, EAC-MRH, IGAD, ZAZIBONA, West 
African Medicine Regulatory Harmonization (WA-MRH)) 
b) The technical content of the dossier has to correspond exactly to that 
submitted and currently approved by EAC/IGAD and as specified in the 
corresponding Procedure guidelines. The dossier has to be accompanied 
by the appropriate current quality information summary (QIS). 
 
 
 
 
17
c) In situations where the applicant wishes to apply the Procedure to an 
application that is already pending with PPB (applied through the 
National pathway), the applicant should first update the dossier to 
ensure that the technical part of the information is the same as that 
currently approved by the EAC/IGAD, as applicable. 
d) Additional requirements are: 
i. 
A valid GMP certificate from PPB.   
ii. 
Application fee per product. 
iii. 
The requirements on samples stays in place 
iv. 
Labelling requirements as per PPB guidelines. 
e) Pre-registration testing from a PPB recognized laboratory or a WHO 
prequalified laboratory is a requirement for this procedure.  
Note: Applications submitted for products assessed and approved by 
IGAD/EAC joint assessment shall undergo verification assessment.  
3.2.3.5 For products accepted by MAGHP, EU-M4ALL joint 
assessment  
a) A letter of positive opinion to PPB2) The technical content of the dossier 
has to correspond exactly to that submitted and currently approved by 
the MAGHP, EU-M4ALL and as specified in the corresponding 
Procedure guidelines. The dossier has to be accompanied by the 
appropriate current quality information summary (QIS). 
b) Additional requirements are: 
i. 
A valid GMP certificate from PPB.  
ii. 
Application fee per product. 
iii. 
The requirements on samples stays in place. 
iv. 
Labelling requirements as per PPB guidelines. 
c) Pre-registration testing from a PPB recognized laboratory or a WHO 
prequalified laboratory is a requirement for this procedure. 
3.2.4  RELIANCE MECHANISMS IN HANDLING VARIATIONS. 
a) For variation applications to be assessed through reliance, the change 
must be approved by WHO listed authority (WLA)/SRA/WHO, 
The following conditions and documentation shall be fulfilled by the 
 
 
 
 
18
applicant; 
All Conditions and documentation will be required as per the PPB 
Guidelines for submission of variation applications for registered 
medicines (HPT/PER/GUD/015 Rev No. 4) selected along with a copy 
of the reference SRA/ WHO decision or other document confirming the 
final decision of the reference SRA/WHO. 
b) Confirmation letter that the information (variation dossier) submitted 
to the PPB is the same as that submitted to reference SRA/WHO for the 
variation.  
c) Whenever FPPs have been registered on the basis of approval by a WHO 
listed authority (WLA) (innovator products or generic products) or WHO 
prequalification, subsequent applications for variations should also be 
approved by the same WLA and WHO PQP, respectively, and the Board 
shall be notified of the approval of the changes and the applicant shall 
submit proof of approval of such changes from the respective agency, if 
applicable.  
d) For products formerly registered by PPB and subsequently approved by 
WLAs, the variation(s) shall be approved based on submission of letter 
of approval of the variation(s), from the WLAs. 
e) For further guidance and application requirements regarding 
variations, please consult the procedures and processes as laid out in 
PPB Guidelines for submission of variation applications for registered 
medicines, Vaccines and Biotherapeutics.   
3.2.5 ASSESSMENT TIMELINES 
The assessment target timelines will depend on submission pathways as 
follows: 
a) WHO Prequalified products registered through CRP/SRA-CRP and 
regional expedited pathways: 
i. 
Screening and initial evaluation phase (10 working days) 
ii. 
Evaluation of additional screening questions (10 working 
days). 
iii. 
First review (70 working Days) 
 
 
 
 
19
b) Products approved by Reference Regulatory Authorities including 
(WLA/SRA).   
i. 
Screening and scheduling (10 working days) 
ii. 
Evaluation of additional information (30 working days) 
iii. 
First review (90 working days) 
iv. 
Decision phase (15 working days) 
Time taken by applicant to respond to questions pauses the clock and is not 
included as part of PPB regulatory timelines 
 
 
 
 
 
20
4.0 
PART 2: RELIANCE FRAMEWORK FOR MEDICAL DEVICES AND 
IVDs. 
4.1 
RELIANCE MECHANISMS USED IN REGISTRATION OF MEDICAL 
DEVICES AND IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTICS  
Reliance mechanisms for medical devices and invitro diagnostic follow the risk 
classification and public health impact assessment, whilst also remaining 
cognisant of emergency situations. The risk classification will influence the 
reliance evaluation pathway to be adopted, the documentation required and 
the turnaround time as outlined below  
4.2 
RELIANCE PATHWAYS FOR MEDICAL DEVICES AND IVD’S  
a) Abridged Pathway  
This pathway is prescribed for a medical device that has obtained at least two 
reference regulatory agency approval for a labelled use identical to that 
intended for marketing in Kenya at the time of submission. It typically 
employed in lower-risk categories or when there's a demonstrated equivalence 
to an already approved device. This pathway is to be used for all risk 
classification of medical devices except class A. 
Immediate pathway 
This route facilitates immediate market access for medical devices. The 
process facilitates a faster review and submission of less documentation than 
typical approval procedures, but still requires adherence to basic safety and 
effectiveness standard. This pathway is to be used by Class A&B medical 
devices  
b) Expedited  
Medical devices that qualify for this method of reliance that fast-tracks 
marketing authorisation of medical devices for emergency use or during 
disease outbreaks and Class C medical devices. The criteria for consideration 
for emergency use shall consider the following: 
1. The medical device is needed:  
▪ 
to treat or diagnose any medical condition resulting from a public 
health emergency;  
 
 
 
 
21
▪ 
to prevent the spread or possible outbreak of an infectious 
disease;  
▪ 
to treat or diagnose an infectious disease or any medical 
condition associated with an infectious disease, where the 
medical condition or infectious disease is potentially serious or 
life threatening; and  
▪ 
no safe and effective alternatives have previously been authorized 
or are reasonably available.  
2. In the understanding of the NRA, there is:  
▪ 
preliminary scientific evidence that the medical device has the 
potential:  
▪ 
–  to treat or diagnose the medical condition resulting from 
the public health emergency,  
▪ 
–  to prevent the spread or possible outbreak of an 
infectious disease, and  
▪ 
–  to treat or diagnose an infectious disease or any medical 
condition associated with an infectious disease.  
▪ 
continued scientific evidence that the potential benefits of the 
medical device outweigh the known risks of the medical device to 
a person on whom the medical device is used, and;  
▪ 
a strong post-market surveillance structure and market 
surveillance system to monitor product safety and performance, 
update the benefit–risk assessment and reduce the chance of SF 
products reaching the market.  
The applicant is required to actively seek and submit more 
evidence as it becomes available.  
The diagram below represents the Process for emergency use 
authorization  
 
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
4.3 
RECOGNITION OF Market Authorization FOR MEDICAL DEVICES    
Under this pathway, the Board shall undertake the registration/approval 
process by directly recognizing the outcome of the review conducted by a 
reference regulatory authority with which the Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
has a formal mutual recognition agreement. 
Furthermore, the Board may, at its discretion, choose to rely on or formally 
recognize an assessment from another reference regulatory authority on a 
unilateral basis, without requiring a reciprocal agreement. 
The availability of assessment reports shared by the reference regulatory 
authority will form the basis for which this recognition will be issued. 
 
 
 
 
 
23
4.4 
REFERENCE 
REGULATORY 
AUTHORITIES 
FOR 
RELIANCE 
EVALUATION FOR MEDICAL DEVICES AND IVD’S. 
These are set out according to a confidence-based approach, leveraging on the 
approvals by listed medical device reference regulatory agencies and/or prior 
safe marketing history of the medical devices. The types of approvals that 
qualify for the abridged, expedited and immediate evaluation routes are: 
a) Australia Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) Device Registration 
License 
b) Health Canada (HC) Device Registration License 
c) Japan Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW), Pharmaceutical 
and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) 
i. 
Pre-Market 
Certification 
from 
a 
Japanese 
Registered 
Certification Body 
ii. 
Pre-Market Approval from MHLW 
d) US Food and Drug Administration (US FDA) 
i. 
510K clearance 
ii. 
Premarket Approval (PMA) 
e)  European Union Notified Bodies (EU NB) via EC certificates issued 
according to 
i. 
Regulation (EU) 2017/745 on medical devices (MDR) 
ii. 
Regulation (EU) 2017/746 (IVDR) on in vitro diagnostic 
medical devices 
f) Health Products Regulatory Authority of Ireland 
g) Swiss Medic 
h) Saudi Arabia Food and Drugs Authority 
i) Therapeutic Goods Administration of Australia 
 
The following additional procedures can be used for reliance/ collaborative 
review, which are not strictly regulatory authorities: 
a) World Health Organization (WHO) collaborative registration process   
 
 
 
 
 
24
4.5 
RELIANCE EVALUATION PATHWAYS FOR MEDICAL DEVICES   
Applications for reliance are assessed by the board for granting market 
authorization (MA) through the following three (3) assessment reliance 
pathways:  
 
a) Abridged Evaluation Route- This route applies to medical devices that 
have obtained approval from at least one of the reference regulatory 
agencies for a labelled use identical to that intended for marketing in the 
target country. It allows for a streamlined review process by leveraging 
existing evaluations. Applies to class B, C and D medical devices. 
b) Expedited Registration (ER) Evaluation Route-This route is designed 
for higher-risk devices that have prior approvals from multiple reference 
regulatory agencies and meet specific criteria. They are fast-tracked for 
urgent or breakthrough treatment or diagnostics. Applies to class C and 
D medical devices 
c)  Immediate Registration (IR) Evaluation Route-This pathway allows 
for automatic or near-instant recognition of a medical device or IVD if 
it has been approved by a stringent regulatory authority. Applies to class 
B and C 
Note: A medical device that has not obtained any prior approval from any of 
the listed medical device reference regulatory authorities at the point of 
application will be subject to the full evaluation route. 
  
 
 
 
 
25
4.6 
ELIGIBILITY 
CRITERIA 
AND 
REQUIRED 
DOCUMENTS 
FOR 
RELIANCE EVALUATION. 
Figure 1: Summary of evaluation routes for medical devices 
 
4.6.1 Conformity assessment process as determined by the device class  
 
The quality, safety and performance of a medical device regardless of its 
classification are determined by systemic controls applied by the 
manufacturer to its design, development, testing manufacture and 
distribution and use over the device’s life-cycle. This process is done by the 
manufacturer through implementation of a quality management system, 
coupled with technical documentation showing that the medical device 
conforms with essential principles. Thus, in considering the reliance 
practices, conformity assessment by the manufacturer are to be considered.  
 
 
 
 
 
The table below provides for this consideration depending on the risk 
classification of the medical device. 
 
 
 
 
26
 
 
4.7 
Regulatory pathways for pre-market conformity assessment of 
medical devices based on reliance  
For medical devices, reliance can take the form of assessment of technical 
dossiers or reports of inspections or audits performed by another NRA or a 
conformity assessment body, and on the evaluation of incidents made by 
another NRA whereas such incidents also affect the domestic market. 
The table below outlines the considerations for steps to market authorization 
for a medical device based on reliance.  
Conformity 
assessment 
element 
Class A 
Class B 
Class C 
Class D 
Quality 
management 
system (QMS)  
 
Regulatory 
audit 
normally not 
required, 
except where 
assurance of 
sterility 
or 
accuracy 
of 
the 
measuring 
function 
is 
required.  
The NRA 
should have 
confidence that 
a current and 
appropriate 
QMS is in place 
or otherwise 
conduct a QMS 
audit prior to 
market 
authorization.  
 
The NRA should 
have confidence 
that a 
current and 
appropriate QMS is 
in place or 
otherwise conduct a 
QMS audit prior to 
market 
authorization.  
 
The NRA should 
have confidence 
that a 
current and 
appropriate 
QMS is in place 
or otherwise 
conduct a QMS 
audit prior to 
market 
authorization.  
 
Technical 
documentation  
 
Pre-market 
submission 
normally not 
requested.  
 
Not normally 
reviewed pre-
market. The 
NRA may 
request and 
conduct a pre- 
market or post- 
market review 
sufficient to 
determine 
conformity with 
essential 
principles.  
The NRA will 
undertake 
a review sufficient 
to determine 
conformity with 
essential principles 
prior to the device 
being placed on the 
market.  
 
The NRA will 
undertake 
an in-depth 
review to 
determine 
conformity with 
essential 
principles, prior 
to the device 
being placed on 
the market.  
 
Declaration of 
conformity  
 
Submission 
normally not 
requested.  
 
Review 
and verify 
compliance 
with 
requirements 
by the NRA.  
review 
and verify 
compliance with 
requirements by the 
NRA.  
 
Review 
and verify 
compliance with 
requirements by 
the NRA.  
 
 
 
 
 
27
 
 
Class A Medical Devices 
The Board shall not apply reliance mechanisms to Class A Medical Devices.  
 
Reliance Evaluation Pathway for Class B, C and D Medical Device is as 
per Table 1 below;   
 
 
 
 
28
Table 1: Reliance evaluation pathways for Classes B, C & D Medical Devices 
Reliance 
Evaluation 
Pathway 
Class B medical 
devices 
Class 
C 
medical 
Device 
Class D medical Device 
Abridged 
Eligibility 
criteria 
Must 
have 
approval from at 
least 1 of PPBs 
reference 
regulatory 
agencies. 
Required 
Documents 
1.Proof 
of 
reference 
agency’s 
approval(s). 
2.Proof 
of 
registration from 
the 
above 
reference agency 
for a minimum 
of 3 years. 
3.Declaration of 
safety 
of 
the 
device. 
4.IFU/Technical 
manual. 
5.Proof 
of 
sterility 
(If 
applicable). 
6.Risk analysis. 
  
Eligibility criteria 
Approval from at least 
1 of PPBs reference 
regulatory agencies. 
Required documents 
1.Proof of registration 
from 
the 
reference 
regulatory agencies.  
2.Instruction for use 
(IFU)/Technical 
manual identical to the 
registered device  
3.Duly 
filled 
the 
Essential 
principle 
checklist. 
  
Eligibility criteria 
A medical device that has 
obtained 
at 
least 
one 
reference regulatory agency 
approval for a labelled use 
identical to that intended for 
marketing in Kenya at the 
point of submission will 
qualify 
for 
the 
abridged 
evaluation route. 
Required documents 
1.Proof of registration from 
the 
reference 
regulatory 
agencies. (1) 
2.Instruction 
for 
use 
(IFU)/Technical 
manual 
identical to the registered 
device  
3.Dulfilled 
Essential 
principal checklist. 
Expedited 
N/A 
Eligibility criteria 
Condition 1 
1.Approval 
from 
at 
least 1 of reference 
regulatory agency. 
2.Marketed for ≥ 3 
years 
in 
the 
above 
independent reference 
regulatory 
agency’s 
jurisdictions. 
3.No 
safety 
issues 
globally. 
Eligibility criteria 
1.Obtained approvals from 
at 
least 
two 
of 
PPBs 
independent 
reference 
regulatory agencies for a 
labelled use identical to 
that intended for marketing 
in Kenya 
2.No rejection/withdrawal 
of 
the 
medical 
device 
by/from 
any 
reference 
regulatory 
agency/that 
foreign 
jurisdiction(s) 
or 
 
 
 
 
29
Reliance 
Evaluation 
Pathway 
Class B medical 
devices 
Class 
C 
medical 
Device 
Class D medical Device 
4.No prior rejection/ 
withdrawal 
by/from 
any 
independent 
reference 
regulatory 
agencies or other NRA 
(e.g. 
withdrawal/rejection/
refusal 
to 
register 
specific models in an 
application) 
due 
to 
quality, 
performance/efficacy 
or safety issues. 
OR 
Condition 2 
1.Approvals 
from 
at 
least 
2 
reference 
regulatory agencies 
2.No 
safety 
issues 
globally 
3.No prior rejection/ 
withdrawal 
by/from 
any 
independent 
reference 
regulatory 
agencies 
or 
other 
NRAs. 
(e.g. 
withdrawal/rejection/
refusal 
to 
register 
specific models in an 
application) 
due 
to 
quality, 
performance/efficacy 
or safety issues. 
Required documents 
1.Proof of registration 
from 
the 
reference 
regulatory agencies. 
2.Proof of registration 
from 
the 
above 
reference 
regulatory 
agency for a minimum 
of 
3 
years 
(For-
Condition 1). 
3.Instruction for use 
(IFU)/Technical 
PPB 
due 
to 
quality, 
performance/efficacy 
or 
safety issues. This includes 
non-registration such as 
refusal to register specific 
models in an application. 
Required documents. 
1.Proofof registration from 
the 
reference 
regulatory 
agencies. (2) 
2.Instruction 
for 
use 
(IFU)/Technical 
manual 
identical to the registered 
device  
3.Duly 
filled 
Essential 
principles checklist 
  
 
 
 
 
30
Reliance 
Evaluation 
Pathway 
Class B medical 
devices 
Class 
C 
medical 
Device 
Class D medical Device 
manual identical to the 
intended use of the 
device to be marketed 
in the Kenya market.  
4.Safety declaration. 
5.Duly filled Essential 
principal checklist. 
Immediate 
Eligibility 
criteria 
Condition 1 
1.Approval from 
at least 1 of 
reference 
regulatory 
agency. 
2.Marketed for ≥ 
3 years in the 
above 
independent 
reference 
regulatory 
agency’s 
jurisdictions. 
3.No 
safety 
issues globally. 
4.No 
prior 
rejection/ 
withdrawal 
by/from 
any 
independent 
reference 
regulatory 
agencies 
or 
other NRA (e.g. 
Withdrawal/rej
ection/refusal 
to register of 
specific models 
in 
an 
application)due 
to 
quality, 
performance/ef
Eligibility criteria 
1.Obtained 
approval 
from at least one of 
PPBs 
independent 
reference 
regulatory 
agencies for a labelled 
use identical to that 
intended 
for 
marketing in Kenya; 
2.No 
safety 
issues 
globally 
associated 
with the use of the 
medical 
device(s) 
when 
used 
as 
intended 
by 
the 
product owner, in the 
last 
three 
years, 
defined as; 
 a). no reported 
deaths; 
 b).no 
reported 
serious 
deterioration in 
the 
state 
of 
health    of any 
person; and 
 c).no open field 
safety 
corrective 
actions 
(including 
recalls) point of 
submission. 
3. 
No 
prior 
rejection/withdrawal 
 
 
 
 
 
31
Reliance 
Evaluation 
Pathway 
Class B medical 
devices 
Class 
C 
medical 
Device 
Class D medical Device 
ficacy or safety 
issues. 
OR 
Condition 2 
1.Approvals 
from at least 2 
reference 
regulatory 
agencies 
2.No 
safety 
issues globally 
3.No 
prior 
rejection/ 
withdrawal 
by/from 
any 
independent 
reference 
regulatory 
agencies 
or 
other 
NRAs. 
(e.g. 
withdrawal/rej
ection/refusal 
to 
register 
specific models 
in 
an 
application) 
due to quality, 
performance/ef
ficacy or safety 
issues. 
Required 
documents. 
1.Proof 
of 
reference 
agency’s 
approval(s). 
2.Proof 
of 
registration from 
the 
above 
reference agency 
for a minimum 
of 3 years. 
of the medical device 
by/from any reference 
regulatory agency due 
to 
quality, 
performance/efficacy 
or safety issues. This 
includes 
non-
registration such as 
refusal 
to 
register 
specific models in an 
application. 
Required Documents 
1.Proof of registration 
from 
the 
reference 
regulatory agencies. 
2.Instruction for use 
(IFU)/Technical 
manual identical to the 
device 
intended 
for 
marketing in Kenya 
3.Duly filled Essential 
principle checklist. 
4.Safety declaration. 
  
  
 
 
 
 
32
Reliance 
Evaluation 
Pathway 
Class B medical 
devices 
Class 
C 
medical 
Device 
Class D medical Device 
3.Declaration of 
safety 
of 
the 
device. 
4.IFU/Technical 
manual. 
5.Proof 
of 
sterility 
(If 
applicable). 
6.Risk Analysis. 
  
 
4.8 
 RELIANCE MECHANISMS USED IN REGISTRATION OF IN-VITRO 
DIAGNOSTICS. 
The reliance mechanism for the registration of In Vitro Diagnostics (IVDs) is 
designed to streamline regulatory pathways by leveraging prior approvals 
from recognized regulatory authorities while ensuring product quality, safety, 
and performance. Recognizing the critical role of In Vitro Diagnostics (IVDs) 
in disease diagnosis, monitoring, and public health surveillance, and 
acknowledging the need for timely access to essential diagnostics, particularly 
during health emergencies, this reliance mechanism is established to 
facilitate efficient registration processes. This approach leverages the 
assessments of stringent regulatory authorities, considering the risk 
classification of IVDs (from low-risk to high-risk) and prioritizing diagnostics 
for significant public health concerns.   
IVDs are categorized based on their risk to patients, users, and public health, 
with higher-risk devices requiring more stringent evaluation. 
4.9 
Requirements for IVDs Reliance Applications  
1) A full unredacted assessment report. 
2) Evidence/proof 
of 
product 
registration/granting 
of 
market 
authorization in RRA: the product should have been registered, 
 
 
 
 
33
prequalified and/or granted marketing authorization and is, in the 
latter case, on the market of the reference authority. 
3) Permission for data sharing (Annex II) from the applicant (for WHO 
prequalified products) 
4) A formal written request from the applicant/MAH. 
5) A declaration letter from the applicant stating full compliance with 
eligibility requirements 
6) For products with post-approval changes/variations all assessment 
reports and/or documents concerning the post-approval variations, 
including a tabulated summary of variation approvals from the RRA, 
shall also be provided. 
7) All annexes of the assessment report shall be submitted. 
There’s only one reliance evaluation route for registration of IVDs: The 
abridged evaluation route 
4.9.1 Abridged Evaluation of IVDs 
An abridged assessment considers available evidence that an eligible IVD 
meets certain requirements as a result of the product’s previous 
stringent/reference regulatory assessment and approval. This applies to class 
B, C and D IVDs. 
When considering whether a product qualifies for an abridged prequalification 
assessment procedure, PPB takes into account the following two factors:  
a) Whether the regulatory version of the IVD submitted for PPB registration 
has been assessed and approved by any of the reference regulatory 
authorities and, 
b) If so, whether the regulatory version of the product submitted for PPB 
registration is the same (or is not substantially different) as the regulatory 
version that was stringently assessed and approved by the Recognized 
RRA 
Required Documents 
a) Class B IVD  
 
 
 
 
34
i. 
Proof of reference agency’s approval(s). 
ii. 
Proof of registration from the above reference agency for a minimum of 
3 years. 
iii. 
Declaration of safety of the device. 
iv. 
Instruction for use (IFU)/Technical manual. 
v. 
Sterility report (If applicable). 
vi. 
Risk analysis. 
vii. 
Design and validation report. 
b) Class C AND D IVD. 
viii. 
All the above documents in class B and C plus a Dully filled Essential 
Principles Checklist. 
4.10 Turnaround time for Medical Devices and IVDs 
  
  
Risk Class 
TURN AROUND TIME (WORKING DAYS) 
   
Abridged 
  
  Expedited 
  
Immediate 
Class B 
60 
 
14 
Class C 
            90 
30 
14 
Class D 
     90 
30 
 
 
 
 
5.0 
IMPLEMENTATION MECHANISM 
For the successful implementation of this guidance, PPB shall; 
a) Appoint Reliance Implementation Champions tasked with overseeing and 
promoting the adoption of reliance practices. Their TORs shall include the 
following; 
• Identify reliance applications as per the RRAs/RI. 
• Act as liaison officers for reliance mechanisms. 
 
 
 
 
35
• Undertake tracking of reliance applications using the design-thinking 
approach. 
• Offer training to staff and sensitization of stakeholders/applicants via 
webinars, exchange programmes, etc.  
• Collaborate and communicate with reference agencies.  
• Keep the assessment team engaged in the science and keep them 
challenged.   
• Get buy-in from senior leadership.  
• Any other duties that relate in promotion of reliance mechanisms 
within the organisation and stakeholders. 
 
b) Develop of an Online System: A dedicated digital platform will be set up to 
manage reliance applications, ensuring that the process is seamless, 
transparent, and traceable.  
c) Ensure Resource Allocation and Monitoring: To track the success and 
impact of the reliance initiative, PPB will implement monitoring and 
evaluation systems, assessing both regulatory outcomes and public health 
impacts. 
 
 
 
 
 
36
6.0 
REFERENCES  
1. WHO. (2021). Good reliance practices in regulatory decision-making: 
High-level principles and recommendations. WHO TRS NO 1033, 
2021, Annex 10 
2. FDA. (2019). FDA Ghana reliance policy 
3. FDA, Rwanda Reliance guideline 
4. GMP Quality Manual. 
5. Africa Regulatory Reliance Framework 
6. Ethiopian FDA, Guidelines on Reliance for Medicine Marketing 
Authorization 
7. Achieving effective regulation of medicines and vaccines by national 
regulatory authorities with very limited resources. 
8. Good practices of national regulatory authorities in implementing 
the collaborative registration procedures for medical products 
(Working document QAS/24.956 August 2024) 
9. WHO, 
Collaborative 
procedure 
between 
the 
World 
Health 
Organization and national regulatory authorities in the assessment 
and accelerated national registration of WHO-prequalified in vitro 
diagnostics. 
10. 
South Africa, SAPHRA, Reliance guideline (SAHPGL -BAU-01_v4 
11. 
Health Science Authority, Singapore, Guidance on medical device 
product registration. 
12. 
Brazilian Health Regulatory Agency, ANVISA, Good Reliance 
Practices in MDR. 
13. 
WHO Global Model Regulatory Framework for Medical Devices 
Including In Vitro Diagnostic 
 
 
 
 
37
7.0 
REVISION HISTORY  
Revision 
Number  
Date 
Author 
Section(s) 
Revised 
Description 
of Change  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38
8.0 
LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS AND REVIEWERS  
1.  
Dr Fred Siyoi 
 
Chief Executive Officer, Pharmacy and Poisons 
Board 
2.  
Dr Ahmed Mohamed 
Director Health Product and Technologies 
3.  
Dr Ali Arale 
Chief Principal Regulatory Officer Department of 
Product Evaluation and Registration 
4.  
Dr. Kariuki Gachoki 
Deputy Director, Product Evaluation and 
Registration 
5.  
Dr Jonathan Meriakol Senior Principal Regulatory Officer, Department 
of Product Evaluation and Registration 
6.  
Dr Sarah Chesaro 
 
Senior Principal Regulatory Officer, Department 
of Product Evaluation and Registration 
7.  
Paulyne Wairimu 
Senior Principal regulatory officer, Medical 
Devices and In-Vitro Diagnostics 
 
List of Reviewers 
1.  Dr Felistas Chepwogen  
2.  Dr Eugene Odame 
3.  Dr Solomon Koech  
4.  Mr Alex Mutai 
5.  Mr Erick Kitangala 
6.  Mr Henry Chweya 
7.  Dr Brayhan Kariuki 
8.  Dr Gitobu Kireran 
9.  Dr Kauthar Bajaber 
10. Dr Beatrice Cheruiyot 
11. Dr Anushree Patel 
12. Dr Shellan Omondi  
13. Dr. Anne Tibin 
14. Dr. Francis Letipila 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39
9.0 
List of Annexes  
Annex I _ List of RRAs 
Annex II _ Documentation abridged procedure 
Annex II _ Confirmation of data sharing 
Annex III _ Quality Information Summary 
10.0 Links to Appendices:  
WHO PQ- CRP: 
a)  Appendix 1A:  NMRA participation agreement 
b) Appendix 1B: NMRA focal point(s)' confidentiality undertaking 
c)  Appendix 2: Prequalification holder’s consent to information-sharing 
d) Appendix 3: Part A Applicant’s expression of interest in application of 
the procedure 
 
e) Appendix 3: Part B Acceptance by the NMRA to apply the procedure 
f) Appendix 3: Part C Notification of outcomes of national registration 
procedure 
g) Appendix 4: Report on post-registration actions 
 
WHO SRA CRP: 
a) Appendix 1: Agreement of the national regulatory authority to participate 
in the collaborative procedure in assessment and accelerated national 
registration of pharmaceutical products and vaccines by stringent 
regulatory authorities 
b)  Appendix 2: Example of information included in the list of participating 
reference stringent regulatory authority(ies) 
c)  Appendix 3A:  Manufacturer's consent for information sharing with 
participating national regulatory authority(ies) and the World Health 
Organization 
d)   Appendix 3B:  Manufacturer's request for SRA permission for sharing 
SRA-owned non-public information with participating NRAs and the 
World Health Organization 
 
 
 
 
40
e)   Appendix 4: Quality information summary of the FPP or vaccine 
approved by the reference SRA (QIS-SRA (crp)) 
f)   Appendix 5: Proposed documentation for collaborative procedure for 
reference SRA-approved FPPs and vaccines 
g)   Appendix 6: Requirements for provision of a bridging report for reference 
SRA-approved pharmaceutical product and vaccines for consideration of 
registration in participating countries 
h) Appendix 7: Expression of interest to national regulatory authority 
i)    Appendix 8: Confidential disclosure agreement 
j)  Appendix 9: Notification of an outcome of the national registration 
provided by the participating manufacturer to the World Health 
Organization
 
 
 
 
41
Annex I: List of RRAs/RIs 
a) WHO collaborative registration procedures (WHO CPQ and SRA CRP) 
b) Regional and international reference institutions (e.g. by IGAD, EAC, 
Swiss MAGHP, EU-M4ALL). 
c) Continental/ regional bodies/ forums (e.g., AMA, AVAREF, ABRF). 
d) National Regulatory Authorities with mutual or bilateral recognition 
agreement with PPB.  
e) Institutions for reliance on Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) 
assessment: WHO (Certificate of a Pharmaceutical Product (CPP)), WHO 
Prequalification 
Team 
- 
Medicines 
(PQTm) 
(Confirmation 
of 
Prequalification (CPQ)) or European Directorate for the Quality of 
Medicines and Healthcare (EDQM) (Certificate of Suitability to the 
monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia (CEP)).  
f) WHO Listed Authorities (WLAs) 
g) WHO Transitional WLAs (Category A, B and C)- Category A - ML3&ML4 
NRAs for vaccines only, Category B- SRA and Category C- Highly 
performing NRA (Vaccines) 
h) European Medicines Agency (EMA)  
 
 
 
 
 
42
Annex II: Confirmation of data sharing 
Manufacturer’s request for reference institution’s (RI) permission for 
sharing RI owned non- public information with <PPB> 
Date:                           dd/mm/yyyy                                      
  
<manufacturer> 
  
RE: Request to <RRA/RI> for a permission to <manufacturer> to share 
<RRA/RI>’s non-public information concerning <Product> with <PPB>. 
  
Dear 
<REFERENCE 
REGULATORY 
AUTHORITY 
/REFERENCE 
INSTITUTION>, 
<Manufacturer> as a <Marketing Authorization Holder> of the <RRA/RI> 
authorized <Product>, hereby requests the <RI’s/RRA’S> permission to 
share <RI/RRA>-owned non-public information concerning <Product> for 
the purpose of the procedures of verification or abridged/abbreviated review 
and accelerated national registration of medicinal products based on 
reliance on recognized reference institutions.6 The information to be shared 
consists of 
<RI/RRA> final GxP inspection reports for Product <date; version>; 
<RI/RRA> Product assessment reports; and 
<RI/RRA> <other, please specify> documents/reports that may be 
needed in the context of this Procedure. 
The information will be shared with the <PPB>.  
Yours sincerely, 
Name:                                                                                      
   
Title:                                                                                          
    
RRA:            Address:      
Email:                                                                                       
   
Telephone number:           
  cc: 
_______________________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43
Annex III: QIS-RRA-FPP 
Quality Information Summary of The Finished Pharmaceutical Product 
Approved By The Reference Institution (RRA) (QIS-RRA-FPP) 
INTRODUCTION 
(a)  Summary of product information: 
 
Non-proprietary name(s) of the finished 
pharmaceutical product(s) (FPP) 
  
Proprietary 
name(s) 
of 
the 
finished 
pharmaceutical product(s) (FPP) 
  
International non-proprietary name(s) of the 
active pharmaceutical ingredient(s) (API(s)), 
including form (salt, hydrate, polymorph) 
  
Applicant name and address 
  
Dosage form 
  
Application Number 
  
Strength 
  
Route of administration 
  
Proposed indication(s) 
  
  
  
 
(b) Administrative Summary: 
Applicant’s 
date 
of 
preparation 
or 
revision of the QIS 
  
Version and/or date of acceptance 
(official use only) 
 
Related dossiers (e.g. FPP(s) with the same API(s) submitted to EMP TC 
by the applicant): 
Applicati
on 
number 
( ) 
Registrati
on status 
(Y/N) 
API, 
strength, 
dosage form 
(e.g. 
Irinotecan 
(as 
chloride) 
20mg 
per 
ml 
Solution) 
API manufacturer 
(Including address if same 
manufacturer as current 
dossier) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
44
2.3.S DRUG SUBSTANCE (or ACTIVE PHARMACEUTICAL INGREDIENT 
(API)) (NAME, MANUFACTURER) 
Indicate which option applies for the submission of API information: 
<check one only> 
 
Name of API: 
  
Name of API manufacturer: 
          
□ 
Certificate of suitability to the European Pharmacopoeia (CEP) 
Option 1. 
□ 
Confirmation of API prequalification document: 
Option 2 
□ 
API approval number ____________. 
Option 3a. 
□ 
Active pharmaceutical ingredient master file 
(EMP-TC APIMF) 
procedure: 
APIMF number assigned by EMP TC (if known): _______ ; version 
number(s) including amendments (and/or date(s)) of the open part: 
_______ ; version number(s) including amendments (and/or date(s)) of 
the restricted part: : _______. 
Option 3b. 
□ 
Full details in the PD 
Open part DMF version number_________________ 
Restricted part DMF version number_____________ 
Identifier of current module 3.2.S:  _______________ 
Option 4. 
 
2.3.S.2 Manufacture (name, manufacturer) 
2.3.S.2.1 Manufacturer(s) (name, manufacturer) 
(a) Name, address and responsibility (e.g. fabrication, packaging, labelling, 
testing, storage) of each manufacturer, including contractors and each 
proposed production site or facility involved in these activities: 
 
 
 
 
 
45
Name 
and 
address 
(including 
block(s)/unit(s)) 
Responsibility 
CEP number/ 
WHOAPI-PQ 
number /WHO 
APIMF/ EMP 
TC 
Listing 
No./Approved 
APIMF/ 
if 
applicable) 
Letter 
of 
access 
provided? 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2.3.S.2.3 Control of Materials (name, manufacturer) – for API option 4 
only 
(a) Name of starting material: 
(b) Name and manufacturing site address of starting material 
manufacturer(s): 
2.3.S.4 Control of the API (name, manufacturer) 
2.3.S.4.1 Specification (name, manufacturer) 
(a) API specifications of the FPP manufacturer:  
 
Standard (e.g. Ph.Int., Ph.Eur., BP, USP, in-
house) 
  
Specification reference number & version 
effective date 
  
Test 
Acceptance criteria 
Analytical procedure 
(Type/Source/Version) 
Description 
  
  
Identification 
  
  
Impurities 
  
  
Assay 
  
  
etc. 
  
  
  
  
  
 
2.3.S.6 Container Closure System (name, manufacturer) 
(a) Description of the container closure system(s) for the storage and 
shipment of the API: 
2.3.S.7 Stability (name, manufacturer) 
 
 
 
 
46
2.3.S.7.1 Stability Summary and Conclusions (name, manufacturer) 
(a) Proposed storage conditions and re-test period (or shelf-life, as 
appropriate): 
 
Container 
closure 
system 
Storage statement 
Re-test period* 
  
  
  
  
  
  
* Indicate if a shelf-life is proposed in lieu of a re-test period (e.g. in the case 
of labile APIs) 
2.3.P DRUG PRODUCT (or FINISHED PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT (FPP)) 
Indicate which option applies for the submission of FPP information: 
<check one only> 
Name of API: 
  
Name 
of 
API 
manufacturer: 
          
□ 
Full details 
□ 
WHO collaborative procedure 
□ 
SRA Abridged procedure 
□ 
EU Article 58 procedure 
  
Any other recognized regulatory or QA procedure 
 
 
 
2.3.P.1 Description and Composition of the FPP 
(a) Description of the FPP (in signed specifications): 
(b) Composition of the FPP: 
(i) Composition, i.e. list of all components of the FPP and their 
amounts on a per unit basis and percentage basis (including 
individual components of mixtures prepared in-house (e.g. 
coatings) and overages, if any): 
 
Component 
and 
quality 
standard 
(and grade, if 
applicable) 
Fun
ctio
n 
Strength (label claim) 
  
  
  
Quant
. 
per 
unit 
% 
Quant. 
per 
% 
Quantit
y 
per 
% 
 
 
 
 
47
or per 
mL 
unit or 
per mL 
unit 
or 
per mL 
<complete with appropriate titles e.g. Core tablet (Layer 1, Layer 2, etc. as 
applicable), Contents of capsule, Powder for injection> 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Subtotal 1 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 <complete with appropriate title e.g. Film-coating > 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Subtotal 2 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Total 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
(ii) Composition of all components purchased as mixtures (e.g. 
colourants, coatings, capsule shells, imprinting inks): 
(c) Description 
of 
accompanying 
reconstitution 
diluent(s), 
if 
applicable: 
  
2.3.P.2.2.1 Formulation Development 
(a) Information on primary (submission, registration, exhibit) batches 
including comparative bioavailability or biowaiver, stability, 
commercial: 
(i) Summary of batch numbers: 
  
Batch number(s) of the FPPs used in 
Bioequivalence 
<e.g. 
bioequivalence 
batch A12345>. 
Biowaiver 
<e.g. 
biowaiver 
batch X12345> 
For 
proportional 
strength 
biowaiver: 
the 
bioequivalence batch of the reference strength 
  
Dissolution profile studies 
  
Stability studies (primary batches) 
‹Packaging configuration I› 
  
  
  
‹ Packaging configuration II› 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
48
‹Add/delete as many rows as necessary› 
  
  
  
Stability studies (production batches) 
‹ Packaging configuration I› 
  
  
  
‹ Packaging configuration II› 
  
  
  
(Add/delete as many rows as necessary) 
  
  
  
Validation studies (primary batches) 
‹ Packaging configuration I› 
  
  
  
‹ Packaging configuration II› 
  
  
  
(Add/delete as many rows as necessary) 
  
  
  
Validation studies (at least the first three 
consecutive production batches) version(s) for 
process validation protocol(s) 
  
  
  
  
 
Summary of formulations and discussion of any differences: 
Component 
and quality 
standard 
(e.g. NF, BP, 
Ph.Eur, in-
house) 
Relevant batches 
Comparative 
bioavailability 
or biowaiver 
Stability 
Process 
validation 
Commercial 
(2.3.P.1) 
<Batch 
nos. 
and sizes> 
<Batch nos. 
and sizes> 
<Batch nos. 
and sizes> 
<Batch 
nos. 
and sizes> 
Theor. 
quantit
y 
per 
batch 
% 
Theor. 
quanti
ty per 
batch 
% 
Theor. 
quanti
ty per 
batch 
% 
Theor. 
quanti
ty per 
batch 
% 
<complete with appropriate titles e.g. Core tablet (Layer 1, Layer 2, etc. as 
applicable), Contents of capsule, Powder for injection> 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Subtotal 1 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
<complete with appropriate title e.g. Film-coating > 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Subtotal 2 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Total 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
49
2.3.P.3 Manufacture 
2.3.P.3.1 Manufacturer(s) 
(a) Name, address and responsibility (e.g. fabrication, packaging, 
labelling, testing) of each manufacturer, including contractors and 
each 
proposed 
production 
site 
or 
facility 
involved 
in 
manufacturing and testing: 
Name and address 
(include block(s)/unit(s)) 
Responsibility 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2.3.P.3.2 Batch Formula 
Largest intended commercial batch size: 
Other intended commercial batch sizes: 
<information on all intended commercial batch sizes should be in the 
QIS> 
(a) List of all components of the FPP to be used in the manufacturing 
process and their amounts on a per batch basis (including 
components of mixtures prepared in-house (e.g. coatings) and 
overages, if any): 
Strength (label claim) 
  
  
  
Master production document 
reference 
number 
and/or 
version 
  
  
  
Proposed commercial batch 
size(s) (e.g. number of dosage 
units) 
  
  
  
Component 
and 
quality 
standard 
(and grade, if applicable) 
Quantity 
per batch 
(e.g. 
kg/batch) 
Quantity 
per batch 
(e.g. 
kg/batch) 
Quantity 
per batch 
(e.g. 
kg/batch) 
<complete with appropriate titles e.g. Core tablet (Layer 1, Layer 2, etc. as 
applicable), Contents of capsule, Powder for injection> 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
50
Subtotal 1 
  
  
  
<complete with appropriate title e.g. Film-coating > 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Subtotal 2 
  
  
  
Total 
  
  
  
  
2.3.P.3.3 Description of Manufacturing Process and Process Controls 
(a) Flow diagram of the manufacturing process: 
(b) Narrative description of the manufacturing process, including 
equipment type and working capacity, process parameters: 
2.3.P.3.4 Controls of Critical Steps and Intermediates 
(a) Summary of controls performed at the critical steps of the 
manufacturing process and on isolated intermediates: 
Step 
(e.g. granulation, compression, 
coating) 
Controls 
(parameters/limits/frequency 
of 
testing) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Proposed/validated holding periods for intermediates (including bulk 
product): 
2.3.P.3.5 Process Validation and/or Evaluation 
(a) Summary of the process validation and/or evaluation studies 
conducted and/or a summary of the proposed validation protocol 
for the critical steps or critical assays used in the manufacturing 
process (e.g. protocol number, parameters, results): 
 
Document code(s) for the process validation protocol(s) and/or 
report(s) (including reference number/version/date): 
  
2.3.P.5 Control of FPP 
2.3.P.5.1 Specification(s) 
(a) Specification(s) for the FPP: 
 
 
 
 
51
Standard (e.g. Ph.Int., BP, USP, in-house) 
  
Specification reference number and version 
  
Test 
Acceptance 
criteria 
(release) 
Acceptance 
criteria 
(shelf-life) 
Analytical 
procedure 
(type/source/ve
rsion) 
Description 
  
  
  
Identification 
  
  
  
Impurities 
  
  
  
Assay 
  
  
  
etc. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2.3.P.7 Container Closure System 
(a) Description of the container closure systems, including unit count 
or fill size, container size or volume: 
  
Description 
(including 
materials 
of 
construction) 
Strength 
Unit count or fill 
size 
(e.g. 60s, 100s etc.) 
Container size 
(e.g. 5 ml, 100 ml 
etc.) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2.3.P.8 Stability 
2.3.P.8.1 Stability Summary and Conclusions 
(a)  Proposed storage statement and shelf-life (and in-use storage 
conditions and in-use period, if applicable): 
 
 
 
 
52
Container 
closure 
system 
Storage statement 
Shelf-life 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2.3.P.8.2 Post-approval Stability Protocol and Stability Commitment 
(a) Stability protocol for Primary stability batches (e.g. storage 
conditions (including tolerances), batch numbers and batch sizes, 
tests and acceptance criteria, testing frequency, container closure  
Parameter 
Details 
Storage condition(s) (◦C, % RH) 
  
Batch number(s) / batch size(s) 
<primary batches> 
Tests and acceptance criteria 
Description 
  
Moisture 
  
Impurities 
  
Assay 
  
etc. 
  
  
  
Testing frequency 
  
Container closure system(s) 
  
(b) system(s)): 
  
(c) Stability protocol for Commitment batches (e.g. storage conditions 
(including tolerances), batch numbers (if known) and batch sizes, 
tests and acceptance criteria, testing frequency, container closure 
system(s)): 
 
 
 
 
53
 
Parameter 
Details 
Storage condition(s) 
(◦C, % RH) 
  
Batch 
number(s) 
/ 
batch size(s) 
<not less than three production batches in 
each container closure system> 
Tests and acceptance 
criteria 
Description 
  
Moisture 
  
Impurities 
  
Assay 
  
etc. 
  
Testing frequency 
  
Container 
closure 
system(s) 
  
 
  
(d) Stability protocol for Ongoing Batches (e.g. storage conditions 
(including tolerances), number of batches per strength and batch 
sizes, tests and acceptance criteria, testing frequency, container 
closure system(s)): 
 
Parameter 
Details 
Storage condition(s) (◦C, % 
RH) 
  
Batch 
size(s), 
annual 
allocation 
<at least one production batch per year 
(unless none is produced that year) in each 
container closure system > 
Tests 
and 
acceptance 
criteria 
Description 
  
Moisture 
  
Impurities 
  
 
 
 
 
54
Assay 
  
etc. 
  
Testing frequency 
  
Container 
closure 
system(s) 
  
  
2.3.P.8.3 Stability Data 
(a) Bracketing and matrixing design for commitment and/or 
continuing (i.e. ongoing) batches, if applicable: 
  
WRITTEN COMMITMENTS OF THE MANUFACTURER – for NRA use 
API 
If applicable (primary stability study commitment): 
The Applicant (or API manufacturer) undertook in writing (date of letter of 
commitment) to continue long-term testing of <INN of API> for a period of time 
sufficient to cover the whole provisional re-test period (period ending 
month/year) and to report any significant changes or out-of-specification 
results immediately to EMP TC for the following batches : 
<Batch numbers, manufacturing dates, batch size, primary packing 
materials> 
If applicable (commitment stability studies): 
Since stability data on three production scale batches were not provided with 
the application, the remaining number of production scale batches should be 
put on long-term stability testing. Any significant changes or out-of-
specification results should be reported immediately to EMP TC. The approved 
stability protocol should be used for commitment batches. 
  
API option 1 – CEP 
The Applicant provided a commitment in writing (date of letter of commitment) 
to inform EMP TC in the event that the CEP is revised or withdrawn, and that 
revisions to the CEP will be handled as per variation guidelines.  Note that 
revisions or withdrawal will require additional consideration of the API data 
requirements to support the dossier. 
API option 2 – WHOAPI-CPQ 
The Applicant provided a commitment in writing (date of letter of commitment) 
to inform EMP TC in the event that the WHOAPI-CPQ is revised or withdrawn, 
 
 
 
 
55
and that revisions to the WHOAPI-CPQ will be handled as per variation EMP 
TC Variation guidelines.  Note that revisions or withdrawal will require 
additional consideration of the API data requirements to support the dossier. 
  
API option 4 – full details in the PD (ongoing stability study commitment) 
The Applicant undertook in writing (date of letter of commitment) a 
commitment regarding ongoing stability studies.  Unless otherwise justified, 
at least one batch per year of the product will be included in the stability 
programme (unless none is produced during that year).  The stability protocol 
will be that which was approved for primary batches (or the protocol was 
submitted for assessment).  Out-of-specification results or significant atypical 
trends will be investigated.  Any confirmed significant change or out-of-
specification result will be reported immediately to EMP TC. The possible 
impact on batches on the market will be considered in consultation with   GMP 
inspection. 
FPP 
If applicable (primary stability study commitment): 
The Applicant undertook in writing (date of letter of commitment) to continue 
long-term testing of < FPP reference number, trade name (INN of API), 
strength, pharmaceutical form> for a period of time sufficient to cover the 
whole provisional shelf-life (period ending month/year) and to report any out-
of-specification results or significant changes immediately for the following 
batches : 
<Batch numbers, manufacturing dates, batch size, primary packing materials 
> 
If applicable (commitment stability studies): 
Since stability data on three production scale batches was not provided with 
the application, the Applicant undertook in writing, (date of letter of 
commitment) to put the remaining number <e.g. additional two (2)> 
production scale batches of < FPP reference number, trade name (INN of API), 
strength, pharmaceutical form, primary packing material> on long-term 
stability testing. Any out-of-specification results or significant changes during 
the study will immediately be reported to EMP TC.  The approved stability 
protocol will be used for commitment batches. 
If applicable (when the proposed largest commercial batch size is 200 
000 units (x units) or less) 
The Applicant undertook in writing (date of letter of commitment) to place the 
first three batches of any production size larger than x units on stability.   The 
stability protocol will be that which was approved for primary batches (or the 
 
 
 
 
56
protocol was submitted for assessment).  Out-of-specification results or 
significant atypical trends will be investigated.  Any confirmed significant 
change or out-of-specification result will be reported immediately to EMP TC. 
Ongoing stability study commitment 
The Applicant undertook in writing (date of letter of commitment) a 
commitment regarding ongoing stability studies.  Unless otherwise justified, 
at least one batch per year of the product manufactured in every primary 
packaging type will be included in the stability programme (unless none is 
produced during that year).  The stability protocol will be that which was 
approved for primary batches (or the protocol was submitted and found 
acceptable).  Out-of-specification results or significant atypical trends will be 
investigated.  Any confirmed significant change or out-of-specification result 
will be reported immediately to EMP TC. The possible impact on batches on 
the market will be considered in consultation with GMP inspection.  
If applicable (validation of production batches) 
Validation data on production scale batches of not less than three (3) 
consecutive batches of <FPP reference number, trade name (INN of API), 
strength, pharmaceutical form, primary packing material> was not provided 
with the application. Therefore, the Applicant submitted a written 
commitment (date of letter of commitment) that three consecutive production 
batches would be prospectively validated and a validation report —in 
accordance with the details of the validation protocol provided in the dossier— 
would be made available as soon as possible for evaluation by assessors or 
for verification by the GMP inspection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
57
Annex 1V: Health Products Reliance Screening Checklist 
 
Information required 
(Please put a tick √ as applicable. If requirement not fully met, 
please comment below)  
YES 
NO 
1. 
Has the applicant submitted consent form to WHO and SRA to 
share information with PPB under the procedure. 
 
 
Comment  
 
2. 
Has the applicant submitted the Expression of Interest form. 
 
 
Comment 
 
3. 
Has the applicant submitted the mutual agreement between 
the applicant and the manufacturer, if the applicant for 
national registration is different from the manufacturer with a 
prequalified product/SRA-CRP approved product. 
 
 
Comment 
 
 
 
4. 
Has the applicant submitted the declaration of sameness of the 
product as approved. 
 
 
Comment 
 
5. 
Has the applicant provided a declaration that the dossier has 
been updated to reflect all post-prequalification variations 
approved. 
 
 
Comment 
 
6. 
Has the applicant attached the current approved Quality 
Information Summary (QIS). 
 
 
Comment 
 
7. 
Has the applicant submitted the product’s approval letter. 
 
 
Comment 
 
8. 
Has the applicant submitted assessment report (Public or non-
public) 
 
 
Comment 
 
 
Change History 
Date of preparation of original QIS: 
Date of revised 
version 
Section 
(e.g. S.2.1) 
Revision 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
P.O. Box 27663 – 00506, Nairobi, Lenana Road Opposite Russian Embassy 
Nairobi, 
Telephone: 0709770100 
Website: www.pharmacyboardkenya.org.ke 
Email: info@pharmacyboardkenya.org.ke 
 
 
