 
 
      
                                                                             HPT/PER/GUD/014
 
 
 
 
                                          Rev. No. 01 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
               
 
 
 
 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH 
PHARMACY AND POISONS BOARD 
 
 
 
GUIDELINES ON SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTATION FOR 
REGISTRATION OF SIMILAR BIOTHERAPEUTIC PRODUCTS 
 
 
JANUARY    2022   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The author of this document is the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, a State 
Corporation under the Ministry of Health, Republic of Kenya. It may be 
reproduced or adopted on condition that the recommended citation below 
is made. 
 
 
©Pharmacy and Poisons Board, 2022 
 
All rights reserved: 
 
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval 
system, or transmitted in any form, or by any means, electronic, 
mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, without the 
prior permission in writing from the pharmacy and Poisons Board. 
 
 
 
 
For clarifications, comments, or suggestions, please contact: 
The Chief Executive Officer 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
P.O. Box 27663 – 00506, Nairobi 
Telephone: 0709770100 
Email: info@pharmacyboardkenya.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS ....................................................................................... iv 
ACKNOWLEGEMETS.................................................................................................................... v 
CONTRIBUTORS ............................................................................................................................ v 
GLOSSARY ..................................................................................................................................... vii 
IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITY AND EXISTING LEGAL FRAMEWORK ........xii 
SCOPE ..........................................................................................................................................xii 
INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................. 1 
1.1 THE CONCEPT OF SIMILAR BIOTHERAPEUTIC PRODUCTS ................................ 1 
2: GENERAL INFORMATION...................................................................................................... 2 
2.1 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS ........................................................................................... 2 
2.2  
Consideration for the Choice of RBP ..................................................................... 2 
2.3. PRODUCT SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS .................................................................... 3 
2.4.  OTHER REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................. 4 
2.4.1 Manufacturer’s declaration ...................................................................................... 4 
2.4.2.   Expert Report .......................................................................................................... 4 
2.5. SCIENTIFIC GUIDELINES APPLICABLE TO ALL SIMILAR 
BIOTHERAPEUTIC PRODUCT ............................................................................................... 5 
MODULE 1: ADMINISTRATIVE AND PRODUCT INFORMATION .................................. 6 
MODULE 2: OVERVIEW AND SUMMARIES ......................................................................... 6 
MODULE 3: QUALITY................................................................................................................... 6 
3.1 Qualitative and Quantitative Particulars ................................................................... 7 
3.2 Manufacturing process..................................................................................................... 8 
3.3 Analytical Comparability studies ................................................................................ 10 
3.4 Analytical procedure/technique/Product characterization ............................... 10 
 
 
3.5 Container closure system .............................................................................................. 11 
3.6 Product stability ............................................................................................................... 12 
MODULE 4: NON-CLINICAL STUDY ..................................................................................... 14 
4.1 Special consideration ...................................................................................................... 14 
4.2 Pharmacodynamics ......................................................................................................... 15 
4.3 Toxicology ........................................................................................................................... 16 
MODULE  5: CLINICAL STUDIES .......................................................................................... 18 
5.1 Pharmacokinetic (PK) studies ...................................................................................... 18 
5.2 Pharmacodynamics (PD) studies................................................................................. 19 
5.3 Clinical efficacy trials ...................................................................................................... 20 
5.4 Clinical safety and effectiveness.................................................................................. 20 
5.5 Clinical Immunogenicity ................................................................................................ 21 
5.6.  Pharmacovigilance......................................................................................................... 23 
Annex I: APPLICATION FORM FOR REGISTRATION OF BIOTHERAPEUTIC AND 
SIMILAR BIOTHERAPEUTIC PRODUCTS (SBPs) .............................................................. 24 
Annex II: EXPERT DECLARATION FORM ........................................................................... 35 
 
 
 
 
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 
 
BMRs  
- 
Batch Manufacturing Records 
CMC   
- 
Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls  
CA 
 
- 
Clinical Assessor 
DNA   
-  
Deoxyribonucleic Acid 
EAC   
-  
East African Community 
EMA   
-  
European Medicines Agency  
EU  
 
-  
European Union  
GCP   
-  
Good Clinical Practice 
GLP   
- 
Good Laboratory Practice 
GMP   
-  
Good Manufacturing Practice  
ICH   
-  
International Council for Harmonization  
INN  
 
-  
International Non-proprietary Names  
MOA  
-  
Mechanism of Action 
NCE   
-  
New Chemical Entity  
NMRA   
-         National Medicines Regulatory Authority 
Ph. Eur 
-  
European Pharmacopeia  
PK/PD  
-  
Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic 
PBRER  
- 
Periodic Benefit-Risk Evaluation Report 
RBP   
-   
Reference Biotherapeutic Product  
RMP   
- 
Risk Management Plan 
SBP   
-   
Similar Biotherapeutic Product  
WHO   
-  
World Health Organization 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEGEMETS   
CONTRIBUTORS 
EAC  Expert working group on  Medicine Registration  2018   
REVIEWERS 
Dr. Jonathan Meriakol, Senior Principal Regulatory officer, PER, DHPT, PPB 
Dr. Ronald Inyangala –      Deputy-Director, 
Senior 
Principal 
Regulatory 
Officer, Drug Product Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department, HPT 
Dr. Peter Mbwiiri Ikamati, Chief Principal Regulatory officer, PER, DHPT, PPB 
Dr. Serah Chebet Chesaro, Principal Regulatory officer, PER, DHPT, PPB 
Dr. Paulyne  Wairimu-  Principal Regulatory Officer, Medical Devices Department,
 
 Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
Dr. Eugene Odame, Senior Regulatory officer, Product Evaluation and 
Registration (PER)  (MD&IVDs), DHPT, PPB  
Dr. Ali Arale - Principal Regulatory Officer, Drug Product Evaluation and 
Registration (DPER) Department, Directorate of Health Products and 
Technologies) 
Dr. James Owuor  - Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Drug Product 
Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department, Directorate of Health Products 
and Technologies)  
Dr. Edwin Burugu - 
 Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Drug Product 
Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department Directorate of Health Products 
and Technologies 
Mr. Alex Mutai  
- 
Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Blood and 
Blood Products Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologie 
 Ms. Jacqueline Yahuma  
- Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, 
Cosmetics Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
Mr. Henry Chweya - Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Border line 
Products Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
Mr. Peter Mugala  - Senior Information and Communication Technology 
Officer; Drug Product Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department, 
Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
 
 
 
Mr. Anthony Kemboi 
 -  Information and Communication Technology 
Officer; Drug Product Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department, 
Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
 Mr. Victor Kipchumba -  Information and Communication Technology Officer 
Medical Devices Department Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GLOSSARY  
In these Guidelines, unless the context otherwise states: 
 
“Antibody” means a spectrum of proteins of the immunoglobulin family that is 
produced, in the human (or animal) body, in response to an antigen (e.g., a virus or 
bacterium, or a foreign protein unknown to the body’s immune system). Antibodies are 
able to combine with and neutralize the antigen, as well as to stimulate the immune 
system for defense reactions.  
“Antigen” means a substance that causes the immune system to produce antibodies 
against it.  
“ Drug substance” means an antigenic substances (or compounds thereof) that can 
induce specific responses in human against infectious agents, its antigens and toxins.. 
“Applicant” means the product owner or license holder.  Representatives of license 
holders may not hold themselves as applicants unless they own the product. 
“Batch/Lot” means a  defined quantity of starting material, packaging material or 
product processed in one process or series of processes so that it can be expected to be 
homogenous. 
“Bioequivalence” means that two proprietary preparations of a drug, when 
administered in the same dose and by the same route, will have the same 
bioavailability, duration of action and efficacy. 
“Biotechnology” means a set of tools that employ living organism (or part of organism) 
to make or modify products, to improve plants and animals, or to develop 
microorganisms for specific uses Or a collection of technologies that use living cells 
and/or biological molecules to solve problems or make useful products.  
“Chemically synthesized polypeptide” means any alpha amino acid polymer that is 
(a) made entirely by chemical synthesis, and (b) is less than 100 amino acids in size. 
“CMC (Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls)” means the section of a submission 
dealing with the substance properties, manufacturing and quality control, intended for 
evaluating the provided information in the context of the current standards in chemical 
science and technology, and the current regulations. 
 
 
 
“Comparability Exercise” means the activities including study design, conduct of 
studies, and evaluation of data, that are designed to investigate whether the products 
are comparable (head to head comparison). 
“Conformance to specification” means that the drug substance and drug product, 
when tested according to the listed analytical procedures, will meet the acceptance 
criteria.  
“biotherapeutic  product”. A biological medicinal product with the indications of 
treating human diseases 
“Equivalent” means equal or virtually identical in the parameter of interest. Small 
non-relevant differences may exist. Equivalent efficacy of two medicinal products 
means they have similar (no better or no worse) efficacy and any observed differences 
are of no clinical relevance. 
“Head-to-head comparison” means the direct comparison of the properties of the 
similar biologic with the reference biologic in the same study. 
“ICH” means International council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements 
for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use. ICH is a project that brings 
together the regulatory authorities of Europe, Japan and the United States and experts 
from the pharmaceutical industry in the three regions to discuss scientific and 
technical aspects of product registration. The purpose is to make recommendations on 
ways to achieve greater harmonization in the interpretation and application of technical 
guidelines and requirements for product registration in order to reduce or obviate the 
need to duplicate the testing carried out during the research and development of new 
medicines. For more information, see http://www.ich.org/. 
“Immunogenic” means any substance that is recognized as foreign by the immune 
system in a (particular) higher organism and induces an immune response which may 
include the formation of antibodies and developing immunity, hypersensitivity to the 
antigen, and tolerance.  
“Immunogenicity” means the ability of a substance to trigger an immune response or 
reaction (e.g., development of specific antibodies, T cell response, allergic or 
anaphylactic reaction). 
“Impurity” means any component present in the drug substance or drug product that 
is not the desired product, a product-related substance, or excipients including buffer 
components. It may be either process- or product-related. 
 
 
 
“Innovator Product” means a means a new chemical entity which has received a 
patent on its chemical formulation or manufacturing process, obtains chemical 
formulation or manufacturing process, obtains approval from a regulatory authority 
after extensive testing and is sold under a brand name. 
“In-process control or Process control” means checks performed during production 
to monitor and, if appropriate, to adjust the process and/or to ensure that the 
intermediate or API conforms to its specifications. 
Interchangeability” is the medical practice of changing one medicine for another that 
is expected to achieve the same clinical effect in a given clinical setting and in any 
patient on the initiative, or with the agreement of the prescriber. For interchangeable 
products, one or the other can be used (prescribed) but these products cannot be 
substituted with one another during a treatment period. Hence, interchangeability does 
not imply substitutability.  
“International Non-proprietary Name (INN)” means the approved chemical name of 
the product. 
“Non-clinical (Pre-clinical)” means during pre- clinical drug development, a sponsor 
evaluates the drug's toxic and pharmacologic effects through in vitro and in vivo 
laboratory animal testing. Generally, genotoxicity screening is performed, as well as 
investigations on drug absorption and metabolism, the toxicity of the drug's 
metabolites, and the speed with which the drug and its metabolites are excreted from 
the body.  
“Pharmacopoeias” means a current edition of British Pharmacopoeia, (BP), European 
Pharmacopoeia, (Ph. Eur), International Pharmacopoeia, (IP), United States 
Pharmacopoeia, (USP), Japanese Pharmacopoeia (JP). 
“Pharmacovigilance” means, the science and activities relating to the detection, 
assessment, understanding and prevention of adverse effects or any other drug related 
problems. The decision to approve a drug is based on a satisfactory balance of benefits 
and risks within the conditions specified in the product labeling. This decision is based 
on the information available at the time of approval. The knowledge related to the safety 
profile of the product can change over time through expanded use in terms of patient 
populations and the number of patients exposed. In particular, during the early post-
marketing period the product might be used in settings different from clinical trials and 
a much larger population might be exposed in a relatively short timeframe. Detailed 
 
 
 
evaluation of the information generated through pharmacovigilance activities is 
important for all products to ensure their safe use. 
“Protein” means any alpha amino acid polymer with a specific defined sequence that 
is greater than 40 amino acid in size.  
“Reference Biotherapeutic Product”  
A reference biotherapeutic product is used as the comparator for head-to-head 
comparability studies with the similar biotherapeutic product in order to show 
similarity in terms of quality, safety and efficacy. Only an originator product that was 
licensed on the basis of a full registration dossier can serve as a RBP. It does not refer 
to measurement standards such as international, pharmacopoeial, or national 
standards or reference standards. 
“Similar Biotherapeutic Product” means a new biotherapeutic product claimed to be 
similar‟ to an already approved reference biotherapeutic product, which is marketed 
by an independent applicant, subject to all applicable data protection periods and/or 
intellectual property rights in the innovator product. The requirements for the 
registration of similar biotherapeutic product are based on the demonstration of 
similarity (i.e. no clinically meaningful difference between the similar biotherapeutic 
product and the reference biotherapeutic product) in terms of quality, safety and 
efficacy to an already registered, reference  biological product. 
“Similar” means absence of a relevant difference in the parameter of interest. 
“Similarity” means if a company chooses to develop a new biological product claimed 
to be „similar‟ to a reference product, comparative studies are needed to generate 
evidence substantiating the similar nature, in terms of quality, safety and efficacy, of 
the new similar biological product and the chosen reference product.  
“Specification” means a list of tests, references to analytical procedures, and 
appropriate acceptance criteria which are numerical limits, ranges, or other criteria for 
the tests described. It establishes the set of criteria to which a drug substance, drug 
product or materials at other stages of its manufacture should conform to be 
considered acceptable for its intended use. 
“Substitution” Practice of dispensing one medicine instead of another equivalent and 
interchangeable medicine at the pharmacy level without consulting the prescriber 
Switching Decision by the treating physician to exchange one medicine for another 
medicine with the same therapeutic intent in patients who are undergoing treatment 
 
 
 
“Validation” The process of demonstrating that the system (or process) under 
consideration meets in all respects the specification of that system or process. Also, the 
process of evaluating a system or component during or at the end of the development 
process to determine whether it satisfies specified requirements.  
“Variation” means a change in the indication(s), dosage recommendation(s), drug 
classification and/or patient group(s) for a previously registered drug being marketed 
under the same name in Tanzania. A variation also includes, but is not limited to, a 
change in the product name, site of manufacture and/or source of ingredients. 
“Well-characterized biologic” A well-characterized biologic is a chemical entity whose 
identity, purity, impurities, potency and quantity can be determined and controlled. 
Most of these products are recombinant DNA-derived proteins or monoclonal 
antibodies. For DNA-derived proteins, determining identity requires establishing the 
primary and secondary structures, including amino acid sequence, disulfide linkages 
(if possible), and post-translational modifications such as glycosylation (the attachment 
of carbohydrate side chains to the protein). Monoclonal antibodies can be identified 
with rigorous physicochemical and immunochemical assays. Purity and impurities 
must be quantifiable, with impurities being identified if possible; the biological activity 
and the quantity must be measurable. 
Well-established biotherapeutic product: A biotherapeutic product that has been 
marketed for a suitable period of time with a proven quality, efficacy and safety. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITY AND EXISTING LEGAL FRAMEWORK 
The Pharmacy and Poisons Board will ensure that the Similar Biotherapeutic 
product     dossiers submitted for market authorization are complying with 
requirements as stipulated in the technical guidelines and in accordance with 
the relevant policies, laws, legal frameworks, guidelines, manuals and 
procedures existing   in Kenya.  
 
SCOPE 
This Guideline is made to provide guidance to applicants on the procedure for 
registering a Similar Biotherapeutic Product in Kenya.  The guideline applies to 
well-established and well-characterized biotherapeutic products such as 
recombinant DNA-derived therapeutic proteins. Vaccines and plasma derived 
products and their recombinant analogues are excluded from the scope of these 
guidelines.  
 
This document is intended to provide guidance on issues to consider when 
demonstrating that a proposed biological product is similar to,  a reference 
biotherapeutic product already registered, well established for purposes of 
submitting a marketing application.For the purpose of this document, a Similar 
Biotherapeutic Product (a short designation for highly similar biological 
medicinal product) is considered as a new biological medicinal product 
developed to be similar in terms of quality, safety and efficacy to an already 
registered, well established, medicinal product. 
 
This guideline should be read in conjunction with   the Guideline for the 
Registration of Biotherapeutic products.  
 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION  
 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board requires that all medicinal products intended to 
be marketed in Kenya meet the acceptable standards of quality, safety and 
efficacy and at the same time be assessed to have been produced in facilities 
that comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP). This Guideline 
is made to provide guidance to applicants on the procedure to register similar 
biotherapeutic products in the Kenya.  
 
1.1 THE CONCEPT OF SIMILAR BIOTHERAPEUTIC PRODUCTS 
The concept of a Similar Biotherapeutic Product (SBP) applies to biological drug 
submission in which the manufacture would be based on demonstrated similarity to a 
Reference Biotherapeutic Product (RBP).  
 
The rationale for creating the new regulatory framework to evaluate SBP is that 
biotherapeutic products claimed to be highly similar to a reference product do not 
usually meet all the conditions to be considered as a generic product. The term generic 
medicine is used for chemically derived products which are identical and 
therapeutically equivalent to the innovator product. For such generics, demonstration 
of bioequivalence with the innovator product is usually appropriate to infer therapeutic 
equivalence. However, this procedure cannot be used for SBP.The large and complex 
molecular structure of biologics makes them difficult to adequately characterize in the 
laboratory.  
 
Based on the current analytical techniques, two biotherapeutic products produced by 
different manufacturing processes cannot be shown to be identical, but similar at best. 
For these reasons, the standard generic approach is scientifically not applicable to 
development of SBP products and additional non-clinical and clinical data are usually 
required. 
 
Based on the comparability approach and when supported by state-of-the-art 
analytical systems, the comparability exercise at the quality level may allow a reduction 
of the non-clinical and clinical data requirements compared to a full dossier. This in 
 
 
 
turn, depends on the clinical experience with the substance class and will be a case by 
case approach. 
 
The aim of the SBP approach is to demonstrate close similarity of the ‘similar 
biotherapeutic product’ in terms of quality, safety and efficacy to one chosen reference  
Biotherapeutic  product, subsequently referring to the respective dossier. 
References: 
WHO TRS 977, Annex 2, i.e. WHO biosimilar guidelines 
 
2: GENERAL INFORMATION 
 
2.1 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
For general requirements of application for registration of SBPs reference should be 
made to the Pharmacy and Poisons Board guidelines on documentation for registration 
of biotherapeutic products. 
 
There are some additional requirements, specific to SBP’s, which are described in 
module 3,4 and 5. 
 
2.2  Consideration for the Choice of RBP 
 
The aim of the SBP approach is to demonstrate close similarity of the SBP product in 
terms of quality, safety and efficacy to a RBP  
 
The following should be considered in selecting RBP; 
i. 
The RBP should have been marketed for a suitable duration and have a 
volume of marketed use such that the demonstration of similarity to it 
brings into relevance a substantial body of acceptable data regarding the 
safety and efficacy. 
ii. 
The manufacturer must demonstrate that the chosen RBP is suitable to 
support the application for marketing authorization of SBP. 
 
 
 
iii. 
The RBP should have been licensed on the basis of full quality, safety, 
and efficacy data. An SBP should therefore not be chosen as an RBP. 
iv. 
The same RBP should be used throughout the development of the SBP 
(i.e. throughout the comparative quality, nonclinical, and clinical 
studies). 
v. 
The active ingredient of the RBP and the SBP must be shown to be similar. 
vi. 
The dosage form and route of administration of the SBP should be the 
same as that of the RBP. 
vii. 
The following factors should be considered in the choice of an RBP that is 
marketed in another jurisdiction: 
viii. 
The RBP should be licensed and widely marketed in another jurisdiction 
that has a well-established regulatory framework and principles, as well 
as considerable experience of evaluation of biotherapeutic products and 
post-marketing surveillance activities. 
ix. 
The acceptance of an RBP for evaluation of an SBP does not imply that 
the pharmacy and Poisons Board has approved the RBP for use. 
 
 
2.3. PRODUCT SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS 
 
It should be recognized that there may be subtle differences between SBPs from 
different manufacturers or compared with reference products, which may not be fully 
apparent until greater experience in their use have been established. Therefore, in order 
to support pharmacovigilance monitoring, the specific SBPs given to patient should be 
clearly labeled and identified ( by the brand name) by the prescriber.  
 
Application submitted for the registration of SBPs should contain, among other things, 
data demonstrating that the SBP is similar to a RBP which  should be derived from:- 
 
a) Analytical assessment (physicochemical and functional studies) demonstrating the 
biological product is highly similar to the reference product regardless of minor 
differences in clinically inactive components.  
 
 
 
 
b) Animal studies, including the assessment of toxicity.  
 
c) A clinical study or studies, including the assessment of immunogenicity and 
pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics, that are sufficient to demonstrate safety, 
purity, and potency in one or more appropriate indications of use for which the 
reference product is registered and intended to be used and for which registration 
is sought for the biological product.  
 
d) Risk management/pharmacovigilance plans 
 
2.4.  OTHER REQUIREMENTS 
 
 2.4.1 Manufacturer’s declaration  
A document should be presented certifying that the information provided corresponds 
to all the studies performed, regardless of their results. This should include all the 
pertinent information regarding all toxicological and/or clinical tests or trials of the 
biological product that are incomplete or have been abandoned and/or completed tests 
related to indications not covered by the application. 
 
The  applicants intending to develop SBPs should meet with regulators in their country 
of origin to present their product development plans and establish a schedule of 
milestones that will serve as standards for future discussions with the respective 
regulators. 
2.4.2.  
 Expert Report 
Experts must provide detailed reports of the documents and particulars, which 
constitute sections 3, 4 and 5. 
 
The requirement for these signed Expert Reports may be met by providing 
i. 
The Quality Overall Summary, Non-clinical Overview/Summary and  
ii. 
Clinical Overview/Summary  
iii. 
A declaration signed by the experts( annex 2)  
 
 
 
iv. 
Brief information on the educational background, training and 
occupational experience of the experts  
 
Experts should additionally indicate in their declarations the extent, if any of their 
professional or other involvement with the applicant/dossier owner and confirm that 
the report has been prepared by them or if not, any assistance provided and by whom.  
Reports should be based on an independent assessment of the dossier and references 
must be provided for any additional claims not supported by the dossier.   
 
2.5. SCIENTIFIC GUIDELINES APPLICABLE TO ALL SIMILAR 
BIOTHERAPEUTIC PRODUCT 
 
For product specific guidances, applicants are encouraged to refer to the product 
specific guidelines available at the following websites: 
References: 
EMA: http://www.ema.europa.eu  
 
International council of Harmonisation (ICH) Guidelines: http://www.ich.org 
 
WHO TRS 977, Annex 2, i.e. WHO Similar biotherapeutic guideline  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The submission must follow CTD format detailed in Pharmacy and Poisons 
Board guideline for the Registration of Biotherapeutic products .  The   
requirements specific to SBP dossiers are as detailed in the Modules below. 
 
MODULE 1: ADMINISTRATIVE AND PRODUCT INFORMATION 
 
Module 1 should contain all administrative information as stipulated in the   pharmacy 
and Poisons Board Guideline  for the Registration of Biotherapeutic products .  The 
application form  ( Annex 1) is the same that for  Biotherapeutic products, but should 
be indicated by the applicant as SBP.   
 
 Information on SmPC should be consistent with the  RBPs SmPC, any difference in 
the proposed SmPC vis-à-vis the RBPs SmPC, should be appropriately discussed and 
justified 
 
Labelling of SBP should be individualized and should clearly indicate which clinical 
safety and efficacy data have been obtained with the SBP. (Data itself should not be 
included in the label, but studies need to be described). Furthermore, it should clearly 
be stated that the product is a biosimilar. 
 
 
MODULE 2: OVERVIEW AND SUMMARIES 
The purpose of this module is to summarize the quality (chemical, pharmaceutical, and 
biological), nonclinical and clinical information presented in modules 3, 4, and 5 in the 
market authorization application. The submission for this section will be as stipulated 
in the pharmacy and Poisons Board Guideline for the Registration of Biotherapeutic 
products. 
 
 
MODULE 3: QUALITY 
 
 
 
 
The information requested under this section should be supplied  in format stipulated 
in the  pharmacy and Poisons Board Guideline  for the Registration of Biotherapeutic 
products 
 
 
The quality part of a SBP, like all other biological products should comply with 
established scientific and regulatory standards. SBP manufacturer should provide full 
information on Chemistry, manufacturing and control. 
 
IN ADDITION TO SUBMISSION OF THE QUALITY PART 
 
  The applicant of the  SBP is required to submit extensive data focused on the 
similarity, including comprehensive comparative( head – to- head) physicochemical, 
molecular  and biological characterization (these may include bioassays, biological 
assays, binding assays, and enzyme kinetics) of the SBP and the RBP.  
 
Information on the development studies conducted to establish the dosage form, the 
formulation, manufacturing process, stability study and container closure system 
including integrity to prevent microbial contamination and usage instructions should 
be documented.  
 
A summary of the analytical results (these may be in a form of a report) on three 
consecutive batches of finished product must be provided to support the application 
for registration. These batches may be pilot or production batches. If they are pilot 
batches, they must be representative of production batches 
 
 
 
 
3.1 Qualitative and Quantitative Particulars 
 
 
 
 
Qualitative and Quantitative Particulars of SBP shall be presented in a tabular form as 
indicated in the pharmacy and Poisons Board Guideline  for the Registration of 
Biotherapeutic products. 
 
A list of all components of the SBP and diluents (if applicable) should be given.  
 
The quantities per dose should be stated. A clear description of the active ingredient 
including the name(s) of the active ingredientshould be provided. The reason(s) for 
inclusion of each excipient and a justification for overages should also be stated. 
 
Where applicable; special characteristics of excipients should be indicated. The type of 
water (e.g purified, demineralised), where relevant, should be indicated. 
 
3.2 Manufacturing process 
 
The manufacturing process for SBP should be highly consistent and robust. The 
process should be developed and optimized taking into account state-of-the-art 
technology in relation to the manufacturing processes and consequences on product 
characteristics.  
 
For the establishment and characterization of the cell banks,  EAC Guideline  for the 
Registration of Biotherapeutic products. 
, ICH guidelines Q5A, Q5B and Q5D should be referred to.  
Complete description of the manufacturing process from the development and 
characterization of cell banks, stability of clone cell culture/fermentation, harvest, 
excipients, formulation, purification, primary packaging interactions etc should be 
submitted.  
 
When demonstrating similarity between a SBP and a RBP, the following factors should 
be critically considered:- 
 
1 . Differences between the chosen expression system of the proposed SBP and that of 
the RBP should be carefully considered and appropriately documented. 
 
 
 
 
2 . Characterization of the expression construct, including its genetic stability, should 
be demonstrated in accordance with principles recommended in ICH Q5B. 
 
3. Characterization tests, process controls, and specifications that will emerge from 
information gained during process development must be specific for the proposed SBP 
and the manufacturing process. The use of Quality-by-Design approaches is 
recommended to assure consistent manufacturing of high-quality product. 
 
4. The full drug master file (DMF), manufacturing process validation protocol and 
report should be submitted. 
 
5.  Product employing clearly different approaches to manufacture from the reference 
product will not be eligible for registration as a SBP.The applicant shall be required to 
provide information to fulfill the requirements for registration of new biological 
products as prescribed in the  EAC Guideline  for the Registration of Biotherapeutic 
products  
 
Reference  
 
i. 
ICH Q5A:  Viral Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology Products Derived From Cell 
Lines of Human or Animal Origin 
 
(http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/Scientific_guidelin
e/2009/09/WC500002801.pdf) 
 
ii. 
ICH Q5B: 
Quality Of Biotechnological Products: Analysis of the Expression 
Construct in Cells Used for Production of r-DNA Derived Protein Products.  
http://www.gmp-manual.com/showdoc/GMP-MANUAL/GMP-Regulations/E-
ICH-Guidelines/E5B-ICH-Q5B-Quality-of-Biotechnological-Products-Analysis-of-
the-Expression-Construct-in-Cells-Used-for-Production-of-R-DNA-Derived-Protein-
Products 
 
 
 
 
iii. 
ICH Q5D: Derivation and Characterization of Cell Substrates used for Production 
of 
Biotechnological/Biological Products 
http://www.gmp-manual.com/showdoc/GMP-MANUAL/GMP-Regulations/E-
ICH-Guidelines/E5D-ICH-Q5D-Derivation-and-Characterisation-of-Cell-
Substrates-used-for-Production-of-BiotechnologicalBiological-Products 
 
 
3.3 Analytical Comparability studies 
 
The SBP should be highly similar to the RBP and studies shall be done according to 
the capability of available appropriate analytical assays to assess, for example, the 
molecular weight of the protein, complexity of the protein (higher order structure and 
post-translational modification), degree of heterogeneity, functional properties, 
impurity profiles and degradation profile denoting stability. Design of the Comparability 
approach should be supported by scientifically sound methodologies.  
 
Note; the capabilities of the methods used in the analytical assessment as well as their 
limitations shall be described.  
 
3.4 Analytical procedure/technique/Product characterization 
 
The applicant should submit assessment of the analytical similarity to the RBP in 
additional to information on Chemistry Manufacturing and Controls (CMC).  The 
purpose of the analytical similarity assessment should be clearly described with 
consideration for the known quality attributes and performance characteristics of the 
specific reference product.  
 
Extensive analytical methods should be applied to increase the likelihood of detecting 
subtle variations in the quality attributes of the product. Methods used in both the 
characterization studies and comparability studies should be appropriately qualified 
and validated [as in ICH Q2 (R1)]  
 
 
 
 
Reference standards and international reference materials shall be used for method 
qualification and validation. Specifications and Certificates of analysis for both 
reference standards and raw materials from the manufacturer must be provided.  
 
Characterizations of a biological product by appropriate techniques, as described in 
ICH Q6B and WHO TRS 987 annex 4 should include the determination of 
physicochemical properties, biological activity, immunochemical properties, purity, 
impurities, contaminants, and quantity. Product-related impurities, product-related 
substances, and process-related impurities should be identified, characterized as 
appropriate, quantified and compared to those of the RBP to the extent feasible and 
relevant, as part of an assessment of the potential impact on the safety, and potency of 
the product. 
 
For further guidance on key points to be considered in the characterization 
exercise,ICH Q6B guidelines shall be referred to. 
Reference; 
 
ICH Q2 (R1): Validation of Analytical Procedure: Test and Methodology. 
 
http://www.ich.org/fileadmin/Public_Web_Site/ICH_Products/Guidelines/Quality/Q
2_R1/Step4/Q2_R1__Guideline.pdf 
 
ICH Q6B: Note for guidance on specifications: Test Procedures and Acceptance Criteria 
for Biotechnological/ Biological products.  
 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/Scientific_guideline/200
9/09/WC500002824.pdf 
 
3.5 Container closure system 
 
A description of the container and closure system, and its compatibility with the SBP 
shall be submitted.  Any differences   of the   RBP and SBP container closure should 
be   justified. Detailed information concerning the supplier(s), address (es), and the 
 
 
 
results of any relevant information on compatibility, toxicity and biological tests shall 
be provided for containers of novel origin.  Evidence of container and closure integrity 
shall be provided for the duration of the proposed shelf life. Drawings of the containers 
and closures should be included. 
 
Specification shall be provided for the components of the container closure system that 
come into contact with the product. Specification for primary container shall include 
among other tests, an identification test for material of construction of the container. 
 
3.6 Product stability 
 
The stability studies should comply with relevant pharmacy and poisons Board 
Guidelines for application of Registration for Biotherapeutic products, ICH Q5C 
andQ1A (R2). Studies should be carried out to show that the biodegradation profiles 
are comparable between SBP and RBP.  Generally, stability studies results should be 
summarized in a tabular format, and they should include the results from real time 
and accelerated degradation studies and studies under various stress conditions 
(temperature, light, humidity and mechanical agitation).  
 
An appropriate physicochemical and functional comparison of the stability of the 
proposed SBP with that of the RBP should be monitored to confirm storage conditions 
selected. 
 
Stability data should be provided for at least three representative consecutive batches 
stored in the final container. The three consecutive production runs shall  (the largest 
scale validated and proposed for registration for commercial use) The storage 
temperature should be stated together with the results of tests on the batches. A plan 
for on-going stability studies should be provided indicating the batch numbers of the 
batches on test and the time points when testing is planned.  
 
Note: Shelf life before opening the container and shelf-life after first opening the 
container (if applicable) shall be demonstrated. 
 
 
 
 
Reference; 
 
ICH 
Q5C 
- 
Quality 
of 
Biotechnological 
Products: 
Stability 
Testing 
of 
Biotechnological/Biological Products 
 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/Scientific_guideline/2009
/09/WC500002803.pdf 
 
 
Q1A (R2)–Stability Testing of New Drug Substances and Products 
 
http://www.fda.gov/downloads/drugs/guidancecomplianceregulatoryinformation/gu
idances/ucm073369.pdf 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MODULE 4: NON-CLINICAL STUDY 
 
The establishment of safety and efficacy of an SBP usually requires the generation of 
some non-clinical data with the SBP. The spectrum of studies required to established 
safety and efficacy of the SBP may vary considerably and should be defined on a case-
by-case basis. 
 
Non-clinical studies should be performed in a facility that is GLP accredited. Certificate 
of GLP compliance issued by competent authority should be included in the dossier.  
 
These studies should be comparative in nature and should be designed to detect 
differences in the pharmaco-toxicological response between the SBP and the RBP.  
 
The approach taken will need to be fully justified in the non-clinical overview. 
Nonclinical studies should be a part of the overall comparability studies. Any deviation 
from this approach should be appropriately justified. 
 
4.1 Special consideration 
 
The design of an appropriate nonclinical study should consider the product 
characteristics. Results from the physicochemical and biological characterization 
studies should be reviewed from the point of view of potential impact on efficacy and 
safety. In the development of SBP, existing guidelines such as EAC Guideline for the 
Registration of Biotherapeutic products and ICH S6, should also be taken into account. 
 
Additional nonclinical data may be required to establish the safety and efficacy of SBP 
depending on the product and on factors related to substance class as stipulated in 
the Pharmacy and poisons Board Guideline for the Registration of Biotherapeutic 
products  
 
Factors that may elicit the need for additional nonclinical studies include, but are not 
restricted to, the following: 
 
 
 
 
a) Quality-related factors: 
 
i. Significant differences in the cell expression system compared with the RBP; 
ii. Significant differences in purification methods used; 
iii. The presence of a complex mixture of less well-characterized product- and/or 
process-related impurities e.g.a highly complex immunogenic substance that is 
difficult to characterize by analytical techniques and that possesses a narrow 
therapeutic index. 
 
b) Factors related to pharmaco-toxicological properties of the drug substance: 
i. Mechanism(s) of drug action are unknown or poorly understood; 
ii. The drug substance is associated with significant toxicity and/or has a narrow 
therapeutic index; 
iii. Limited clinical experience with the RBP. 
 
Depending on these factors, the spectrum of studies required to establish the safety 
and efficacy of the SBP may vary considerably and should be defined on a case-by-case 
basis.  
 
4.2 Pharmacodynamics 
 
a) 
In vitro studies: 
In order to assess any alterations in reactivity between the SBP and the RBP, data from 
a number of comparative bioassays (e.g. receptor-binding studies, cell proliferation 
assays), many of which may already be available from quality-related bioassays, should 
be provided. 
 
b) 
In vivo studies: 
Animal studies should be designed to maximize the information obtained. They should 
be comparative in nature (see above), should be performed in a species known to be 
relevant (i.e. a species in which the RBP has been shown to possess pharmacodynamic 
and/or toxicological activity), and should employ state-of the-art technology. 
 
 
 
 
Where the model allows, consideration should be given to monitoring a number of end-
points such as: 
a) Biological/pharmacodynamic activity relevant to the clinical application. These data 
should usually be available from biological assays described in the quality part of 
the dossier (Section 3) and reference to these studies can be made in the nonclinical 
part of the dossier. 
 
b) If feasible, biological activity may be evaluated as part of the nonclinical repeat-dose 
toxicity study (described below). Invivo evaluation of biological/pharmacodynamic 
activity may be unnecessary if in vitro assays are available that have been validated 
as reliably reflecting the clinically relevant pharmacodynamic activity of the RBP.At 
least one PD marker is accepted as surrogate marker but must be validated. 
 
4.3 Toxicology 
 
Data on at least repeated dose toxicity conducted in relevant specie should be 
submitted. 
Toxicokinetic measurements shall include the following;  
4.3.1 Determination and characterization of antibody responses, including anti-
product antibody titres 
4.3.2 Cross-reactivity with homologous endogenous proteins, and 
4.3.3 Product-neutralizing capacity. 
 
The studies should be of sufficient duration to allow detection of potential differences 
in toxicity and antibody responses between the SBP and the RBP. 
 
A head-to-head repeat dose toxicity study should usually constitute a minimum 
requirement for non-clinical evaluation of a SBP. Comparative repeat-dose toxicity 
studies should be submitted to demonstrate that no “unexpected”toxicity will occur 
during clinical use of the SBP. The repeat-dose toxicity study performed on the final 
formulation should aim at detecting potential toxicity associated both with the drug 
substance and with product- and process-related impurities. 
 
 
 
 
 
Although the predictive value of animal models for immunogenicity in humans is 
considered low, antibody measurements, if applicable, should be included in the 
repeat-dose toxicity study to aid in the interpretation of the toxicokinetic data and in 
assessing, as part of the overall comparability exercise, whether important differences 
in structure or immunogenic impurities exist between the SBP and the RBP (the 
immunological response may be sensitive to differences not detected by laboratory 
analytical procedures). 
 
Depending on the route of administration, local tolerance may need to be evaluated. If 
feasible, this evaluation may be performed as part of the described repeat-dose toxicity 
study. 
On the basis of the demonstration of similarity between the SBP and RBP by the 
additional comparability exercise performed as part of the quality evaluation, other 
routine toxicological studies – such as safety pharmacology, reproductive toxicology, 
genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies – are not generally requirements for the 
nonclinical testing of an SBP, however when the results of the repeat-dose toxicity or 
the local tolerance study and/or by other known toxicological properties of the RBP 
(e.g. known adverse effects of the RBP on reproductive function) study reveal the need, 
it should be done. 
 
• 
Refer to   ICH S6: Preclinical safety evaluation of biotechnology-derived 
pharmaceuticals 
• 
 WHO TRS 977 Annex 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MODULE  5: CLINICAL STUDIES 
 
The requirements for documentation of the clinical data depend on the existing 
knowledge about the reference product and claimed therapeutic indications. 
 
The submission must include the information demonstrating that there are no 
clinically meaningful differences between the SBPs and the RBPs in term of Safety, 
Quality and Efficacy. 
 
Clinical programmes for a SBPs application should be conducted in a facility which is 
Good Clinical Practice (GCP) compliant and a certificate issued by regulatory Authority 
from the country of origin and/or competent regulatory Authorityshould be present in 
the submission.  
 
The 
clinical 
comparability 
exercise 
should 
include 
pharmacokinetics 
(PK), 
Pharmacodynamics (PD) studies followed by Clinical Efficacy and Safety trials. 
 
Further guidances on statistical considerations and extrapolations of indications can 
be obtained in WHO guidelines on evaluation of Similar biotherapeutic product,2013. 
 
5.1 Pharmacokinetic (PK) studies 
 
Comparative pharmacokinetic studies should be conducted to demonstrate the 
similarities in pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters between SBPsand theRBPs.  
 
5.1.1 If appropriate from an ethical point of view, healthy volunteers will in most cases 
represent a sufficiently sensitive and homologous model for such comparative 
PK studies.  
 
5.1.2 Choice of designs must be justified and should consider factors such as 
clearance and terminal half-life, linearity of PK parameters, where applicable, 
the endogenous level and diurnal variations of the product under study, 
production of neutralizing antibodies, conditions and diseases to be treated.  
 
 
 
 
5.1.3 The acceptance criteria to conclude clinical comparability should be defined 
prior to the initiation of the study, taking into consideration known PK 
parameters and their variations, assay methodologies, safety and efficacy of the 
RBPs.  
 
5.1.4 Other PK studies such as interaction studies or PK studies in special populations 
(e.g. children, elderly, and patients with renal or hepatic insufficiency) shall be 
submitted.  
 
5.2 Pharmacodynamics (PD) studies 
 
Pharmacodynamics (PD) markers should be selected on the basis of their relevance to 
demonstrate therapeutic efficacy of the product. If direct PD markers are not practical 
a surrogate marker which is clinically validated may be employed. 
 
The Pharmacodynamic effects of the SBPs and the RBPs should be compared in a 
population where the possible differences can be best observed. 
 
Design and duration of the studies must be justified. The PD study may be combined 
with a PK study and the PK/PD relationship should be characterized so as to provide 
information on relationship between exposure and effects. 
 
The selected dose should in the steep part of the dose-response curve. Studies at more 
than one dose may be useful. 
 
Reference; 
 
ICH E 10: Choice of control group and related issues in clinical trials 
 
http://www.ich.org/fileadmin/Public_Web_Site/ICH_Products/Guidelines/Effi
cacy/E10/Step4/E10_Guideline.pdf 
 
 
 
 
5.3 Clinical efficacy trials 
 
Comparative clinical trials (head-to-head adequately powered, randomised, parallel 
group clinical trials, so-called equivalence trials”) are required to demonstrate the 
similarity in the efficacy and the safety profiles between the SBPs and the RBPs. Assay 
sensitivity must be ensured (refer to ICH E10).  
 
Equivalence margins should be pre-specified and adequately justified on clinical 
grounds. Equivalent rather than non-inferior efficacy should be shown in order for the 
SBPs to adopt the posology of the RBPs and to open the possibility of extrapolation to 
other indications, which may include different dosages.  
 
Clinical studies should be designed to demonstrate comparable safety and efficacy of 
the SBP  to the reference product and therefore need to employ testing strategies that 
are sensitive enough to detect relevant differences between the products, if present. 
 
5.4 Clinical safety and effectiveness 
Similar efficacy will usually have to be demonstrated in adequately powered, 
randomized and controlled clinical trials(s). Clinical studies should preferably be 
double-blind or at a minimum observed blind. Furthermore, a sensitive and preferably 
well-established clinical model is required.  Equivalence trials are clearly preferred for 
comparison of the SBP with the reference product. Non-inferiority designs may be 
considered if appropriately justified. 
 
Even if the efficacy is shown to be comparable, the similar biological medicinal product 
may exhibit a difference in the safety profile (in terms of nature, seriousness, or 
incidence of adverse reactions). Thus, data from a sufficient number of patients and 
adequate study duration with sufficient statistical power to detect major safety and 
effectiveness differences are needed.  
 
Data from pre-approval studies are insufficient to identify all these differences in safety. 
Therefore, applicant should submit a risk management plan/pharmacovigilance plan 
 
 
 
for the SBPs. The plan must be with the intention to mitigate potential risks associated 
to the SBPs.Also, the submission should address the strategy to execute the plan. 
 
For products intended for use for more than 6 months, the size of the safety database 
should typically conform to the recommendations of ICH E1.  
 
Reference; 
 
ICH E1: The extent of population exposure to assess clinical safety for drug intended for 
long term treatment for non-life threatening conditions. 
 
http://www.ich.org/fileadmin/Public_Web_Site/ICH_Products/Guidelines/Effi
cacy/E1/Step4/E1_Guideline.pdf 
 
5.5 Clinical Immunogenicity 
 
Immunogenicity of SBPs should be investigated prior to Marketing Authorization. 
Structural and functional studies as well as animal data are generally not adequate to 
predict immunogenicity in humans. Therefore, at least one clinical study that includes 
a comparison of the immunogenicity of the proposed SBPs to that of the RBPs in 
humans has to be submitted. The data should be submitted so as to evaluate potential 
differences between the proposed SBPs and the RBPs in the incidence and severity of 
human immune responses. 
 
A written rationale on the strategy for testing immunogenicity should be provided. 
 
EAC recommends that immunogenicity assays be developed and validated with respect 
to both the proposed SBPs and RBPs product early in development. Validated 
assays/methods should be used for testing immunogenicity with appropriate specificity 
and sensitivity. 
 
 
 
 
Special attention should be given to the possibility that the immune response seriously 
affects the endogenous protein and its unique biological function and thus leads to 
adverse reactions.  
 
The proposed SBPs and RBPs should be evaluated in the same clinical trial of sufficient 
duration with the same patient sera whenever possible. The duration of the study 
should be at least 12 months using appropriate route of administration by comparative 
parallel designs .At the time of submission the study should have  covered at least 6 
months.  
 
Note: Data at the end of the 12 months should be presented as part of the post-
marketing commitment  
 
In situations where an applicant is seeking to extrapolate immunogenicity data for one 
indication to other indications, the applicant should consider using the population and 
regimen for the RBPs for which development of immune responses with adverse 
outcomes is most likely to occur.  
 
The selection of clinical immunogenicity endpoints or PD parameters linked to immune 
responses (e.g., antibody formation and cytokine levels) should take into consideration 
the immunogenicity issues that have emerged during the use of the RBPs. The clinical 
immune response criteria should be defined, using established criteria where available, 
for each type of potential immune responses.  
 
Reference is to be made to the CHMP Guideline on Immunogenicity Assessment of 
Biotechnology-Derived Therapeutic Proteins (CHMP/BMWP/14327/06) 
 
A warning statement on the risks associated with switching of products during 
treatment, and against product substitution, is to be included in the package insert of 
the SBPs;This should be done by prescriber. 
 
 
Reference: 
EMA guidelines 
 
 
 
• 
Guidelines for non-clinical and clinical development of similar biological medicinal 
products 
containing 
recombinant 
erythropoietins 
(EMA/CHMP/BMWP/3016636/2008). 
 
• 
Guidelines for non-clinical and clinical development of similar biological medicinal 
products containing recombinant human insulin and insulin analogues  
(EMA/134217/2012 
 
• 
Guidelines for non-clinical and clinical development of similar biological medicinal 
products containing recombinant Granulocyte Colony Stimulating factor (rG-CSF_) 
(EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/31329/2005). 
 
• 
Guidelines for non-clinical and clinical development of similar biological medicinal 
products containing low-molecular-weight-heparins (EMEA/134870/2012). 
 
• 
Guidelines for non-clinical and clinical development of similar biological medicinal 
products 
containing 
recombinant 
alfa-containing 
medicinal 
products  
(EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/102046/2006). 
 
• 
Guidelines for non-clinical and clinical development of similar biological medicinal 
products containing recombinant beta-containing interferon beta-containing 
medicinal products (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/652000/2010). 
 
• 
Guidelines for non-clinical and clinical development of similar biological medicinal 
products 
containing 
monoclonal 
antibodies- 
(EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010). 
 
• 
WHO TRS 977 Annex 2 
 
5.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
 
As for most biological medicines, data from pre-authorization clinical studies are 
usually too limited to identify all potential unwanted effects of an SBP.  In particular, 
 
 
 
adverse events are unlikely to be encountered in the limited clinical trial populations 
being tested with the SBP.  Further close monitoring of the clinical safety of an SBP in 
all approved indications and a continued benefit-risk assessment are therefore 
necessary in the post-marketing phase. 
 
The manufacturer should submit a Periodic Benefit-Risk Evaluation Report (PBRER) 
and pharmacovigilance plan/risk management plan at the time of submission of the 
marketing authorization application.  The principles of pharmacovigilance planning 
can be found inrelevant guidelines such as ICH E2E. 
 
Reference:  
 
ICH E2E (Pharmacovigilance Planning) 
• 
http://www.ich.org/fileadmin/Public_Web_Site/ICH_Products/Guidelines/Effi
cacy/E2E/Step4/E2E_Guideline.pdf 
 
 
 
 
Annex I: APPLICATION FORM FOR REGISTRATION OF BIOTHERAPEUTIC 
AND SIMILAR BIOTHERAPEUTIC PRODUCTS (SBPs) 
 
 
Form 1  
 
APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF 
BIOTHERAPEUTIC  AND SIMILAR BIOTHERAPEUTIC 
PRODUCTS   
 
 
 
 To  
THE REGISTRAR 
PPB OFFICES, 
LENANA ROAD, 
DRUG REGISTRATION DEPARTMENT, 
P.O. BOX 27663-00506, 
NAIROBI. 
Application Number 
 
 
Date of submission 
of the dossier  
 
 
Name of the 
1st   Assessor  
 
Signature 
Name of the 
2nd Assessor 
 
Signature 
Date of 1st 
Assessment 
 
 
Date of 2nd 
Assessment 
 
 
CONCLUSION OF THE ASSESSMENT 
RECOMMENDED (no outstanding issues) 
QUERY RAISED (Indicate the sections 
where query is raised) 
REJECTED (indicate the module(s) that led 
to the rejection) 
(Please delete which does not apply) 
 
TYPE OF APPLICATION – HUMAN PRODUCT 
MODULE 1: ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION 
SECTION 1: PARTICULARS OF THE PRODUCT  
1.11 Name and address of Applicant 
Company name:  
 
 
 
Address:                
Country:               
Telephone: 
E-Mail:  
 
1.12   Type of Medicinal  Product Application ( Tick where appropriate) 
 
New (Innovator)  BIOTHERAPEUTIC PRODUCT          
OR      
SIMILAR BIOTHERAPEUTIC PRODUCT.        
 
 
For PPB use only 
1.2 
Trade/Proprietary name (prorietary Product name):  
 
For PPB use only 
1.3 
Approved / INN / generic name of the   drug  substance 
For PPB use only 
1.4  
Strength of drug substance(s) per unit dosage form of the product 
and specifications of the drug substance(s), including the reference/ 
monograph standard for each drug substance(s). 
 
For PPB use only 
1.5  
Dosage form 
1.5.1 
Pharmaceutical Dosage form of the product: 
1.5.2 
Specifications of the Finished Pharmaceutical Product: 
1.5.3 
Route(s) of administration (use current list of standard terms - 
European Pharmacopoeia):  
For PPB use only 
 
 
 
1.6  
Packing/Pack size of the product:  
1.6.1 
Pack size: 
1.6.2 
Primary packing materials: 
1.6.3 
Secondary packing materials: 
For PPB use only 
 
1.7  
Visual Description of the product (Add as many rows as necessary) 
For PPB use only 
 
1.8 
1.8 Proposed Shelf life of the product (in months):  
1.8.1 
Proposed shelf life (after reconstitution or dilution) (if applicable): 
1.8.2 
Proposed shelf life (after first opening container):  
1.8.3 
Proposed storage conditions:  
1.8.4 
Proposed storage conditions after first opening:  
For PPB use only 
1.9  
Pharmacotherapeutic group and ATC Code 
1.9.1 
Pharmacotherapeutic group:  
1.9.2 
ATC Code: 
1.9.3 
If no ATC code has been assigned, please indicate if an application 
for ATC code has been made:  
1.9.4 
Proposed indication(s) for the product: 
For PPB use only 
1.10 
Indicate Legal category 
1.10.1  
POM (Prescription only Medicine) unless otherwise, provide 
justification) 
For PPB use only 
1.11  
Country of origin or country of release:  
For PPB use only 
 
 
 
 
1.12  
Product Marketing Authorisation in the country of origin. (Attach 
certificate of pharmaceutical product from competent regulatory 
authority)   If not registered, state reasons 
 Authorised   
Country:  
Date of authorisation:  
Proprietary name:  
Authorisation number:  
 
 Refused 
Country: Not applicable 
Date of refusal (dd-mm-yyyy):  
Reason for Refusal:  
 Withdrawn (by applicant after 
authorisation) 
Country:  
Date of withdrawal (dd-mm-yyyy):  
Proprietary name:  
Reason for withdrawal:  
 
 Suspended/revoked (by competent 
authority) 
Country: Not applicable 
date of suspension/revocation (dd-mm-
yyyy):  
Reason for suspension/revocation:  
 
For PPB use only 
 
1.12.1 
Registration status from countries with Stringent Regulatory 
Authorities (SDRAs) where applicable 
SDRAs - Documents to be attached: 
For PPB use only 
 
1.12.2 
List of countries in which a similar application has been submitted 
For PPB use only 
 
1.12.3 
Statement on whether an application for the Marketing 
Authorisation has been previously rejected, withdrawn or 
repeatedly deferred in the EAC Partner States 
For PPB use only 
 
 
 
 
1.12.4 
Certificates of approval of Drug Substances(s)/ immunogenic s 
substance(s) Master (DMF) by Stringent Regulatory Authority 
For PPB use only 
 
1.12.5 
Manufacturing Licence and Product Licence 
For PPB use only 
 
1.13  
Certificate of Analysis from a WHO Prequalified Laboratory in Kenya and the 
lot release certificate issued by the regulatory authority of country of origin  
for those samples submitted with the application 
 
For PPB use only 
 
1.14  
Name(s) and complete address (es) of the manufacturer(s) 
1.14.1 
Name and complete address(es)of the manufacturer(s) of the FPP, 
including the finished pharmaceutical product release if different from 
the manufacturer.         
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
Company name:  
Address:  
Country:          
Telephone:   
E-Mail:  
 
Manufactured By: 
Company) Name:   
Address:                                 
 
 
 
Country:. 
Telephone:  
Telefax :  
 
If the manufacturer is different to 1.1 above, explain the relationship  
 
1.14.2 
Name(s) and complete address (es) of the manufacturer(s) of the  Drug 
substance 
 
 The active immunogenic substance:  (Add as many rows as necessary) 
Company) Name:       
Office Address  :                                 
Country :   
Telephone   :  
Fax        :  
Contact Person     :  
E-mail                    :  
 
 
For PPB use only 
 
1.15  
Compliance to Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and Good 
Clinical Practice  
1.15.1 
Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) from PPB 
1.15.2 
Good Clinical Practice (GCP) or Good Laboratory Practice (GLP)  
For PPB use only 
 
 
 
1.16 .1 
Name and complete address of the Local Technical Representative 
of Manufacture (for finished pharmcautical Product)  
 
Company name:  
Address:          
Country:     
Telephone:       
E-Mail:          
 
If the Local Technical Representative is different to 1.1 above, 
explain and provide evidence for the relationship: 
1.16 .2 
Name and address (physical and postal) of the person or company 
responsible for pharmacovigilance 
 
Company name:  
Address:          
Country:     
Telephone:       
E-Mail:          
 
For PPB use only 
1.17 
Product Information 
1.17.1 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC): 
 
 
 
 
1.17.2 
Prescribers/Patient information leaflet: 
.1.17.3 
Mock- Ups  and photos scan of the product  
 
 
 
1.18 
1.18 Batch number(s) and Batch Types of the final product used in                    
Clinical studies: 
Stability studies: 
Validation/production scale batches Validation/production scale batches: 
Comments:  
Comments: Provide Reasons for comments , e.g batch numbers N/A  
 
Qualitative and Quantitative composition of the drug substance(s) and excipient(s)  
A note should be given as to which quantity the composition refers (e.g.   1 Vial ).  
Name 
of 
drug 
substance(s)* 
Quantity / 
dosage unit 
Unit 
of 
measure  
Reference/ 
monograph standard 
1. 
 
 
 
2. 
 
 
 
e.t.c  
 
 
 
Name of excipient(s) 
1. 
 
 
 
2. 
 
 
 
e.t.c 
 
 
 
 
Note: * Only one name for each substance should be given in the following order of 
INN**, Pharmacopoeia, common name, scientific name 
** The drug substance should be declared by its recommended INN, accompanied by it
hydrate form if relevant. 
Details of averages should not be included in the formulation columns but should b
below:  
- Drug substance(s):       
- Excipient(s): 
           
 
 
 
 
 
1.19 
State the reference/monograph standard such as British 
Pharmacopeia,  United States Pharmacopeia, Ph. Eur, Japanese
Pharmacopeia, In-house monograph  
e.t.c. used for Finished Medicinal Product.  
 
1.20 
 
Name and address (physical and postal) of the Contract Research 
Organisation(s) where the clinical studies of the product were 
conducted. (If applicable) 
Name:                N/A 
Company name:       
 
Address:                   
Country:                   
Telephone:                
Telefax:                     
E-Mail:                      
 
1.21 DECLARATION BY AN APPLICANT 
I, the undersigned certify that all the information in this form and accompanying 
documentation is correct, complete and true to the best of my knowledge. 
I further confirm that the information referred to in my application dossier is 
available for verification during GMP inspection. 
I also agree that I shall carry out pharmacovigelance to monitor the safety of the 
product in the market and provide safety update reports to the National Medicines
Regulatory Authority.  
I further agree that I am obliged to follow the requirements of Kenya, and 
Legislations and Regulations which are applicable to medicinal products. 
 
Name: 
 
 
 
 
Position in the company:  
 
Signature: 
 
Date: 
 
 
 
Official stamp:…………………………….. 
 
* Note: If fees have been paid, attach proof of payment  
 PPB use only 
 
 
 OVERALL QUERIES AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THIS MODULE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex II: EXPERT DECLARATION FORM 
 
The following is an example of a suitable declaration form: 
 
 
 
 
Quality /Non-clinical / Clinical (delete those not appropriate) 
 
I, the undersigned, declare that I have: 
i. 
the suitable technical or professional qualifications to act in this capacity (for 
more  
     information, refer to the enclosed curriculum vitae). 
 
ii. 
fully examined the data provided by the applicant and have provided 
references to the 
literature to support statements made that are not supported by the applicant’s 
original data. This report presents an objective assessment of the nature and 
extent of the data. 
 
iii. 
provided a report based on my independent assessment of the data provided. 
 
iv. 
based my recommendations, regarding suitability for registration, on the 
data provided 
herewith. I have considered the attached data and have recommended as to 
suitability 
for registration of the intended dose forms and presentations according to the 
proposed product information document. 
 
I further declare that this expert report represents my own view. 
Further, I declare the following to be the full extent of the professional relationship 
between the applicant and myself: 
...................................................................................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
........................ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revision History  
Revision 
No 
Date 
Author 
Section(s) 
Revised 
Description of the Change  
1 
11.01.2022 
QAO 
DOCUMENT 
NUMBER 
Changed to  
PPB/HPT/PER/GUD/014  
FROM 
PPB/PER/MED/GUD/014 
2 
11.01.202 
QAO 
Authorization 
section 
Changed from Registrar to 
CEO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P. O. Box 27663 00506 Lenana Road Opposite Russian Embassy Nairobi,Tel: +254-
02-12345/6789, Fax: +254-02-12345 
Website:www.Pharmacyboardkenya.org.ke,Email:info@pharmacyboardkenya.org.ke 
 
 
