HPT/PER/GUD/032 
Revision No: 002 
 
 
 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH 
PHARMACY AND POISONS BOARD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GUIDELINE FOR SUBMISSION OF VARIATION APPLICATIONS 
FOR REGISTERED HUMAN VACCINES 
 
                        
                   
 
 
 
 
 
FEBRUARY, 2024 
 
 
 
Citation  
 
The author of this document is the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, a State 
Corporation under the Ministry of Health, Republic of Kenya. It may be 
reproduced or adopted on the condition that the recommended citation below 
is made. 
 
Recommended citation: Republic of Kenya, Ministry of Health, Pharmacy and 
Poisons Board, Guideline for Submission of Variation Applications for 
Registered Human Vaccines, Version number 2, 2024 
 
 
All rights reserved: 
 
 
©Pharmacy and Poisons Board, 2024 
 
For clarifications, comments, or suggestions, please contact: 
The Chief Executive Officer 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
P.O. Box 27663 – 00506, Nairobi 
Telephone: 0709770100 
Email: info@pharmacyboardkenya.org 
Website: www.pharmacyboardkenya.org 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
ii
Table of Contents 
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS ............................................................. iv 
GLOSSARY.................................................................................................... v 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS ............................................................................. xv 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION ................................................................................... 1 
1.1 
Legal Framework ............................................................................... 1 
1.2 
Scope ................................................................................................ 2 
1.3 
Objectives .......................................................................................... 2 
2.0 
APPLICATION FOR VARIATION OF A REGISTERED HUMAN 
VACCINES .................................................................................................... 3 
2.1 
Payment of Fees ................................................................................ 3 
3.0 
GENERAL GUIDANCE .......................................................................... 4 
3.1 
Reporting Types ................................................................................ 5 
3.1.1. Notification (N) .............................................................................. 5 
3.1.2.  Minor variation (Vmin) ................................................................. 5 
3.1.4.  New applications .......................................................................... 6 
3.1.5. Reliance Mechanisms in Handling Variations ............................... 6 
3.2. Conditions to be Fulfilled .................................................................... 7 
3.3. Documentation Required .................................................................... 7 
3.4 Reporting Types for Safety, Efficacy, and/or Product Labeling 
Information Changes.................................................................................. 8 
3.5 
Application Process ......................................................................... 10 
3.6 
Special Considerations .................................................................... 10 
3.6.1   Adjuvants ................................................................................... 10 
3.6.2   Influenza vaccines ...................................................................... 11 
3.6.3 Bridging studies ........................................................................... 12 
3.7    Summary of changes ...................................................................... 12 
3.7.1 Administrative changes ................................................................ 12 
 
iii 
 
3.7.2 Changes to the antigen ................................................................ 14 
3.7.3 Manufacture ................................................................................ 14 
3.7.4 Change in equipment used .......................................................... 21 
3.7.6 Control of the antigen .................................................................. 24 
3.7.7 Reference standards or materials ................................................. 26 
3.7.8 Container closure system ............................................................. 26 
3.7.9 Stability of the drug substance or intermediate ........................... 28 
3.7.10 Changes to the final product ...................................................... 30 
3.7.11 Manufacture .............................................................................. 35 
3.7.12      Change in the final product manufacturing process ............. 36 
3.7.13 Control of the final product ........................................................ 42 
3.7.14 Change in the specification used to release the final product .... 42 
3.7.15 Reference standards or materials ............................................... 44 
3.7.16 Container closure system ........................................................... 44 
4.0 
REFERENCES .................................................................................... 52 
5.0 
REVISION HISTORY ........................................................................... 53 
6.0 
APPENDICES ..................................................................................... 55 
Appendix I: Safety and efficacy changes ................................................... 55 
Appendix II: Examples of changes that make a new application necessary
 ................................................................................................................ 58 
Annex I: Application for Submission of Variation ..................................... 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iv 
 
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 
CTD 
Common Technical Dossier (CTD)  
EAC  
East Africa Community  
EMA  
European Medicines Agency   
GMP  
Good Manufacturing Practices  
ICH  
International 
Council 
on 
Harmonization 
of 
Technical 
Requirements for Registration of Human Medicinal Product 
MCB  
Master Cell Bank  
MMR  
Measles-Mumps-Rubella  
MRH  
Medicines Regulation Harmonization  
NMRA 
National Medicines Regulatory Authority  
SDRAs 
Stringent Drug Regulatory Authorities 
SOP  
Standard Operating Procedure  
TSE 
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies 
Vmaj 
Major Variation 
Vmin 
Minor Variation 
VVM   
Vaccine Vial Monitor   
WHO  
World Health Organization 
QAO 
Quality Assurance Officer  
PPB 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board  
                                                
                                           
      
 
 
 
     
                
 
 
v 
 
GLOSSARY  
 
Adjuvant 
A substance or combination of substances used in 
conjunction with a vaccine antigen to enhance (for example, 
increase, accelerate, prolong and/or possibly target) or 
modulate a specific immune response to the vaccine antigen 
in order to enhance the clinical effectiveness of the vaccine.  
 
Antigen  
The following definitions for an antigen apply in this 
document:  
a) The active ingredient in a vaccine against which the 
immune response is induced. Antigens may be: (a) 
live attenuated or inactivated preparations of 
bacteria, viruses, or parasites; (b) crude cellular 
fractions or purified antigens, including recombinant 
proteins (that is, those derived from recombinant 
DNA expressed in a host cell); (c) polysaccharides and 
conjugates 
formed 
by 
covalent 
linkage 
of 
polysaccharides to components such as mutated or 
inactivated proteins and/or toxoids; (d) synthetic 
antigens; (e) polynucleotides (such as plasmid DNA 
vaccines); or (f) living vectored cells expressing 
specific heterologous antigens. Also referred to as 
“immunogen” in other documents.  
b) Also used to describe (a) a component that may 
undergo chemical change or processing before it 
becomes the antigen or active ingredient used to 
formulate the final product (also referred to as an 
“intermediate” in other documents), or (b) an active 
ingredient present in an unmodified form in the final 
product (also referred to as “drug substance” or 
“active substance” in other documents). For example, 
in this document, the term “antigen” applies, in the 
case of a polysaccharide conjugated vaccine, to the 
 
vi 
 
polysaccharide intermediate as well as to the 
conjugated polysaccharide that will not undergo 
further modification prior to formulation.  
 
Applicant 
For the purpose of this document, the term applicant refers 
to any person or entity who has participated in the 
procedure for registration of vaccines by submission of the 
required documentation on a product that has been listed 
after evaluation as registered.  
 
Authority 
For the purpose of this document, the term authority refers 
to Pharmacy and poisons board (PPB)  
 
Cell bank  
A collection of vials of cells of uniform composition (though 
not necessarily clonal) derived from a single tissue or cell 
and used for the production of a vaccine directly or via a 
cell bank system. The following terms are used in these 
Guidelines – master cell bank (MCB): a bank of a cell-
substrate from which all subsequent cell banks used for 
vaccine production will be derived. The MCB represents a 
well-characterized collection of cells derived from a single 
tissue or cell; and working cell bank (WCB): a cell bank 
derived by the propagation of cells from an MCB under 
defined conditions and used to initiate the production of cell 
cultures on a lot-by-lot basis. Also referred to as 
“manufacturer’s working cell bank” in other documents.   
 
Change  
Refers to a change that includes, but is not limited to, the 
product composition, manufacturing process, quality 
controls, 
equipment, 
facilities, 
or 
product 
labeling 
information made to an approved MA or license by the MA 
holder. Also referred to as “variation” in other documents. 
Comparability 
study 
The activities, including study design, conducting of 
studies, and data evaluation are designed to investigate 
 
vii 
 
whether the pre- and post-change products are comparable. 
In addition to routine analysis performed during production 
and control of the antigen or final product, these 
evaluations 
typically 
include 
a 
comparison 
of 
manufacturing process steps and parameters impacted by 
the change, characterization studies, and an evaluation of 
product stability following the change. In some cases, 
nonclinical or clinical data might contribute to the 
conclusion reached.  
 
Comparability 
protocol   
 
Establishes the tests to be done and acceptable limits to be 
achieved to demonstrate the lack of a negative effect of 
specific 
manufacturing 
changes 
on 
the 
safety 
or 
effectiveness of the product. A comparability protocol is a 
highly 
specific, 
well-defined 
plan 
for 
the 
future 
implementation of quality (that is, manufacturing) change. 
Also referred to as “post-approval change management 
protocol” in other documents.  
 
Container 
closure 
system  
 
Refers to the following components: (a) a primary container 
closure system is a packaging component (for example, a 
vial or pre-filled syringe) that is in, or may come into, direct 
contact with the final product dosage form, or components 
that contribute to the container/closure integrity of the 
primary packaging material for a sterile product; and (b) a 
secondary container closure system is a packaging 
component (for example, a carton or tray) that is not, and 
will not be, in direct contact with the dosage form.  
 
Dosage form  
 
In this document “dosage form” refers to the physical form 
in which a pharmaceutical product is presented by the 
manufacturer (a form of presentation) and the form in 
 
viii 
 
which it is administered (a form of administration). Also 
referred to as “pharmaceutical form” in other documents.  
Drug product: See immunogenic product  
Drug substance: See immunogenic substances  
 
EAC 
East African Community  
Excipient   
Any component of the final product other than the active 
component/antigen and the packaging material. Also 
referred to as “inactive ingredient” in other documents. In 
the context of this document, adjuvants are not considered 
to be excipients.  
Final lot   
 
A collection of sealed final containers that are homogeneous 
with respect to the composition of the product and the risk 
of contamination during filling. A final lot must therefore 
have been filled from a formulated bulk in one continuous 
working session.  
Final product  
A finished dosage form (for example, suspension or 
lyophilized cake) that contains an active ingredient, 
generally but not necessarily in association with inactive 
ingredients (excipients) or adjuvants. Also referred to as 
“finished product” or “drug product” in other documents.  
Formulated 
bulk  
 
An intermediate in the drug product manufacturing 
process, consisting of the final formulation of antigens, 
adjuvants, and excipients at the concentration to be filled 
into primary containers.  
 
Immunogenic 
Substance   
An immunogenic substance is an unformulated active 
substance that may be subsequently formulated with 
excipients 
to 
produce 
the 
medicinal 
product. 
The 
immunogenic substance may be whole bacterial cells, 
viruses, or parasites (live or    
A medicinal product is the finished dosage form of the 
immunogenic substance. The medicinal product contains 
 
ix 
 
the immunogenic substance(s) formulated with other 
ingredients in the finished dosage form ready for marketing. 
Other 
ingredients, active or 
inactive, may 
include 
adjuvants, preservatives, stabilizers, and/or excipients.   
 
Intermediate   
 
A material produced during steps in the manufacture of a 
vaccine undergoes further processing before it becomes the 
final product. See the definition for Antigen above. 
 
Manufacturer  
 
 Any person or legal entity engaged in the manufacture of a 
product subject to MA or licensure. In other documents, 
“manufacturer” may also refer to any person or legal entity 
that is an applicant or a holder of a MA or product license 
where the applicant assumes responsibility for compliance 
with the applicable product and establishment standards. 
See the definition for Marketing authorization holder below.  
 
Marketing 
authorization 
(MA)  
A formal authorization for a medicine to be marketed. Once 
an NMRA approves an MA application for a new medicine, 
the medicine may be marketed and may be available for 
physicians to prescribe. Also referred to as “product license” 
or “license” in this and other documents.  
 
Marketing 
authorization 
application 
(MA 
application)  
A formal application to the NMRA for approval to market a 
new medicine. The purpose of the MA application is to 
determine whether the medicine meets the statutory 
standards for safety, effectiveness, product labeling 
information, and manufacturing. Also referred to as “license 
application” in other documents.  
 
Marketing 
authorization 
Any person or legal entity that has received MA or licensure 
to manufacture and/or distribute a medicine. It also refers 
to a person or legal entity allowed to apply for a change to 
 
x 
 
holder 
(MA 
holder)  
the MA or license. Also referred to as the “manufacturer” or 
“applicant” in this and other documents.  
NMRA  
National Medicines Regulatory Agency  
Officially 
recognized 
pharmacopeia 
(or 
compendium)  
Those pharmacopeias recognized by EAC Partner State’s 
NMRAs (i.e. The International Pharmacopoeia (Ph.Int.), the 
European 
Pharmacopoeia 
(Ph.Eur.), 
the 
British 
Pharmacopoeia (BP), the Japanese Pharmacopoeia (JP) and 
the United States Pharmacopeia (USP)).  
 
Product 
labeling 
information  
Printed materials that accompany a prescription medicine 
and all labeling items, namely: (a) prescribing information 
(an instruction circular that provides product information 
on the indication, dosage, and administration, safety and 
efficacy, contraindications, and warnings, along with a 
description of the product for health care providers (also 
referred to as “summary of product characteristics” or 
“package insert” in various countries); (b) patient labeling 
or consumer information; (c) inner label or container label; 
and (d) outer label or carton.  
Quality 
attribute  
A physical, chemical, biological or microbiological property 
or characteristic. A critical quality attribute refers to a 
characteristic or property that should be within an 
appropriate limit, range, or distribution to ensure the 
desired product quality.  
  
Quality 
change  
 
In the context of this document, quality change refers to a 
change in the manufacturing process, product composition, 
quality control testing, equipment, or facility. Also referred 
to as “chemistry manufacturing and control (CMC) change” 
in other documents.  
 
 
xi 
 
Raw materials  
 
A general term used to denote reagents or solvents intended 
for 
use 
in 
the 
production 
of 
starting 
materials, 
intermediates, or final products. 
Seed lot  
 
Preparation of live cells (prokaryotic or eukaryotic) or 
viruses constituting the starting material for the vaccine 
antigen. A seed lot is of uniform composition (although not 
necessarily clonal), is derived from a single culture process, 
and is aliquoted into appropriate storage containers, from 
which all future vaccine production will be derived either 
directly or via a seed lot system.  
The following derived terms are used in these Guidelines – 
master seed lot (MSL): a lot or bank of cells or viruses from 
which all future vaccine production will be derived. The 
MSL represents a well-characterized collection of cells or 
viruses of uniform composition. Also referred to as “master 
virus seed” for virus seeds, “master seed bank” or “master 
seed antigen” in other documents; and working seed lot 
(WSL): a cell or viral seed lot derived by propagation from 
the MSL under defined conditions and used to initiate 
production of vaccines on a lot-by-lot basis. Also referred to 
as “working virus seed” for virus seeds, “working seed bank” 
or “working seed antigen” in other documents.   
 
Specification  
The quality standard (that is, tests, analytical procedures, 
and 
acceptance 
criteria) 
provided 
in 
an 
approved 
application to confirm the quality of antigens (drug 
substances), final products (drug products), intermediates, 
raw materials, reagents, components, in-process materials, 
container closure systems and other materials used in the 
production of the antigen (drug substance) or final product 
(drug product). For this definition, acceptance criteria mean 
numerical limits, ranges, or qualitative criteria for the 
applied tests.  
 
xii 
 
Starting 
material  
Any material used at the beginning of the manufacturing 
process, as described in an MA or product license. 
Generally, the term refers to a substance of defined 
chemical properties and structure that contributes an 
important and/or significant structural element (or 
elements) to the active substance (for example in the case 
of vaccines, synthetic peptides, synthetic glycans, and 
starting materials for adjuvants). The starting material for 
an antigen (drug substance) obtained from a biological 
source 
is 
considered 
to 
consist 
of: 
(a) 
cells; 
(b) 
microorganisms; (c)plants, plant parts, macroscopic fungi 
or algae; or (d) animal tissues, organs or body fluid from 
which the antigen (drug substance) is derived.  
Stringent 
regulatory 
authority 
(SRA)  
A National Medicines Regulatory Authority which is strict, 
precise, and exact with effective and well-functioning 
systems.  Among others, it includes regulatory authorities 
which are: -  
• Members or observers or associates (before 2015) of the 
International Council for Harmonization of Technical 
Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for 
Human Use (ICH)   
• European Union member States (Austria, Belgium, 
Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, 
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, 
Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Poland, 
Portugal, Romania, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, 
Sweden, The Netherlands, and United Kingdom  
• Japan  
• United States  
•  Observers:   for ICH European Free Trade Association 
(EFTA) represented by Swiss Medic of Switzerland, and 
Health Canada (as may be updated from time to time). 
 
xiii 
 
• Associates: through mutual recognition agreements: 
Australia, Norway, Iceland, and Liechtenstein (as may be 
updated from time to time).  
• For medicines used exclusively outside the ICH region, 
positive opinions or tentative approval under any of the 
following three special regulatory schemes are recognized 
as stringent approval: -  
• Article 58 of European Union Regulation (EC) No. 
726/2004  
• Canada S.C. 2004, c. 23 (Bill C-9) procedure  
• United States FDA tentative approval (for antiretroviral 
under the PEPFAR program)  
• A regulatory Authority that has been WHO listed to have 
effective and well-functioning medicines regulation 
systems.   
Supplement:   
Written request submitted to the NMRA to approve a change 
in the original application for MA (or product license) or any 
other notification to add to (that is, supplement) the 
information in the original MA or product license file. A prior 
approval supplement (PAS) is a supplement requiring 
approval from the NMRA before implementation of the 
change. Also referred to as “change application dossier” in 
other documents.  
Vaccine  
A preparation containing antigens capable of inducing an 
active immune response for the prevention, amelioration, or 
treatment of infectious diseases.  
 
Vaccine 
efficacy  
The relative reduction in disease incidence or severity in 
vaccinated 
individuals 
compared 
to 
unvaccinated 
individuals was measured in a randomized, placebo-
controlled clinical trial. In the context of these Guidelines, 
vaccine efficacy has a broad meaning and relates to all 
 
xiv 
 
clinical 
data 
obtained 
to 
ensure 
vaccine 
efficacy, 
immunogenicity, or field effectiveness.  
 
WHO 
Listed 
Authority 
(WLA) 
A WHO Listed Authority (WLA) is a regulatory authority (RA) 
or a regional regulatory system (RRS) that complies with all 
the relevant indicators and requirements specified by WHO 
for regulatory capability as defined by an established 
benchmarking and performance evaluation process. A 
regulatory authority provides the framework that supports 
the WHO recommended regulatory functions. This is the 
authority and affiliated institutions that are responsible for 
regulatory oversight of medical products in a given country 
or region and in charge of assuring the quality, safety and 
efficacy of medical products as well as ensuring the 
relevance and accuracy of product information. 
 
 
 
xv 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
List Of Contributors 
Dr. Jonathan Meriakol 
 Head Biological Products Registration, PPB 
Dr. Ali Arale 
Chief Principle Regulatory Officer, Product Evaluation and   
 Registration (DPER) Department 
Dr. Vallarie Khamira 
Product Evaluation and Registration Department, PPB 
Dr.Gitobu Kireran 
Product Evaluation and Registration Department, PPB 
Reviewers 
Dr. Ahmed Mohamed 
Director Health Products and Health Technologies, 
PPB 
 
Dr. Kariuki Gachoki 
Deputy Director, Health Products &amp;  
Health Technologies, PPB 
 
Dr. Felistas Chepwogen 
Product Evaluation and Registration Department,PPB 
Dr. Sarah Chesaro 
Product Evaluation and Registration Department,PPB 
Dr. Burugu K. Edwin 
Product Evaluation and Registration Department,PPB 
Dr.Purity Mutinda 
Product Evaluation and Registration Department, PPB 
 
Dr.Ann Tibin 
Product Evaluation and Registration Department, PPB 
 
Dr.Lucy Ochola 
 
Head Department of Infectious Diseases Kenya Institute  
of Primate Research 
Mr. Alex Mutai- 
Product Evaluation and Registration Department,PPB 
Mr. Anthony Kemboi 
Quality Management Systems, PPB 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Changes to a registered vaccine may be inevitable during its lifecycle and 
such changes may span from administrative to other substantial changes 
that enable a registered vaccine to be manufactured and controlled by 
methods that are scientifically relevant throughout its lifecycle.   
The variation guideline is intended to guide applicants on the conditions to 
fulfil and the type of documentation to provide before a proposed change can 
be approved. Three categories of changes that require an application for 
variation are described in the guidelines. The changes are Notifications (N), 
Minor changes (Vmin), and Major changes (Vmaj).  
Technical requirements for the different types of variations are set out in this 
guideline in order to facilitate the submission of appropriate documentation 
by applicants and their assessment by the Authority and to ensure that 
variations to the Vaccines do not result in health concerns. 
PPB reserves the right to request information or material, or define conditions 
not explicitly described in this guideline, to allow for adequate assessment of 
proposed change in relation to the quality, safety, and efficacy of a registered 
vaccine.   
Technical requirements for the different types of variations are set out in this 
guideline in order to facilitate the submission of appropriate documentation 
by applicants and their assessment by the Authority and to ensure that 
variations to the Vaccines do not result in health concerns. 
Applicants are urged to read and follow these guidelines fully so that 
applications for variations to registered vaccines meet submission 
requirements as outlined in these guidelines.  
 
1.1 
Legal Framework 
In accordance with Cap 244, Section 3B, Subsection (2)(i), the Board is 
empowered to evaluate applications for approval and modifications of 
dossiers intended for the marketing authorization of medicinal substances. 
 
2 
 
The Pharmacy and Poisons Board (PPB) will ensure that vaccine variation 
applications submitted for 
market authorization comply with the 
requirements outlined in the applicable technical guidelines, policies, laws, 
legal frameworks, manuals, and procedures in Kenya.  
1.2 
Scope 
This guideline applies to applicants intending to make changes in the 
production, quality control, indications, or other changes to a registered 
vaccine. This includes the antigenic substance responsible for eliciting an 
immune response in the human body. This guideline should be read in 
conjunction with other applicable guidelines including the PPB Guidelines 
for Registration of Human Vaccines. 
1.3 
Objectives 
This guideline is intended to:  
a) assist applicants with the classification of changes made to a registered 
vaccine;   
b) guide the technical and other general data requirements to support 
changes that may potentially impact the quality, safety, and efficacy 
attributes of a registered vaccine.  
 
 
 
3 
 
2.0 
APPLICATION FOR VARIATION OF A REGISTERED HUMAN 
VACCINES  
All applications for variation to a registered vaccines shall be made according 
to requirements stipulated in this Guideline and clearly outlined in the 
Variation application form (refer to the variation application form for 
Registered products)   
2.1 
Payment of Fees   
Every application shall be accompanied by requisite fees at the time of 
application except for PSURS. Any application that will not be accompanied 
by requisite fees will not be accepted.  
Mode of Payment: Payments by crossed or bankers’ cheque shall be made 
payable to PHARMACY AND POISONS BOARD. Any variation irrespective of 
whether a notification, minor or major variation will attract a fee as prescribed 
by the Board as per the service charter. 
 
Timelines for Evaluations of applications for Variations 
Information on timelines for evaluations of variation applications is available  
in the Pharmacy and Poisons Board service charter.  
The customer service delivery charter is available on the board’s website: 
https://web.pharmacyboardkenya.org/download/customers-service-
delivery-charter/ 
 
 
 
4 
 
3.0 
GENERAL GUIDANCE 
Applicants should be aware that some variations may require the submission 
of additional consequential variations. Therefore, for any given change the 
applicant should consider if one or more variations may be required to be 
submitted.  
If the applicant is uncertain about the classification of a variation, or the 
change has not been cited in this guideline, they should seek clarification via 
email from the PPB prior to submission. Any change not cited in this 
guideline, shall be decided on a case-by-case basis. 
 
Any application found to be misclassified with a lower variation risk to 
bypass regulatory scrutiny will be rejected. The applicant will be required to 
reapply and pay the initial application fee in full.   
If changes to the dossier only concern editorial changes, such changes need 
not be submitted as a separate variation but can be included as a notification 
together with a subsequent variation concerning that part of the dossier. In 
such a case, a declaration should be provided that the content of the 
concerned part of the dossier has not been changed by the editorial changes 
beyond the substance of the variation submitted.    
Grouping of variations is acceptable only when variations are consequential 
to each other, e.g. introduction of a new impurity specification that requires 
a new analytical procedure. For classification, an application involving two 
or more types of variations will be considered as the highest risk type, e.g. a 
variation grouping both a minor change and a major change will be classified 
as a major change. 
For this document 'test procedure' has the same meaning as 'analytical 
procedure' and 'limits' has the same meaning as 'acceptance criteria. 
'Specification parameter' means the quality attribute for which a test 
procedure and limits are set, e.g. assay, identity, and water content. The 
addition or deletion of a specification parameter, therefore, includes its 
corresponding test method and limits.   
 
5 
 
It is encouraged that all queries raised are addressed comprehensively. If the 
change is not considered satisfactory, within three cycles of the additional 
review after first assessment, the application will be rejected and the 
applicant will be required to make a new application. This will be notified, 
through email correspondence to the applicant. 
3.1 
Reporting Types 
3.1.1. Notification (N)  
Annual notification (AN)  
Applicants must satisfy themselves that they meet all of the prescribed 
conditions for the change. The change should be summarized as part of the 
notification but the indicated documentation is not required to be submitted. 
The documentation indicated for ANs should be available on request or at the 
time of inspection. ANs should be submitted to PPB within 12 months of 
implementation of the changes.  
 
Immediate notification (IN)  
Applicants must satisfy themselves that they meet all of the prescribed 
conditions for the change and submit all required documentation with the 
notification application. Such changes can be implemented immediately at 
the time of submission and they can be considered accepted if an objection is 
not issued by the Authority within 30 working days from the date of 
acknowledgement of receipt of the application.  
 
3.1.2.  Minor variation (Vmin)  
Minor variations are changes that may have minor effects on the overall 
safety, efficacy and quality of the FPP. Applicants must satisfy themselves 
that they meet all of the prescribed conditions for the change and submit all 
required documentation with the variation application.  
 
Such variations shall only be implemented upon receipt of a formal letter of 
acceptance from the PPB.  
 
Minor variations shall be evaluated in accordance with the Customer Service 
Delivery Charter, which is available on the Board’s website.  
 
6 
 
 
3.1.3.  Major variation (Vmaj)  
Major variations are changes that could have major effects on the overall 
safety, efficacy and quality of the FPP. The documentation required for the 
changes included in this reporting type should be submitted. Prior acceptance 
by PPB is required before the changes can be implemented. An approval of 
the change will be issued for all major variations when the variation is 
considered acceptable. Major variations shall be evaluated as per customer 
service delivery charter which is available on the board’s website.  
 
The applicant(s) are advised that all variations to registered products must be 
submitted in strict accordance with this guideline. If the applicant is 
uncertain about the classification of a variation, seek clarification via email 
from the PPB prior to submission. Any application found to be misclassified 
with a lower variation risk to bypass regulatory scrutiny will be rejected. The 
applicant will be required to reapply and pay the initial application fee in full.  
 
It is encouraged that all queries raised are addressed comprehensively. If the 
change is not considered satisfactory, within three cycles of the additional 
review after first assessment, the application will be rejected and the applicant 
will be required to make a new application. This will be notified, through email 
correspondence to the applicant. 
3.1.4.  New applications 
Certain changes are so fundamental that they alter the terms of the accepted 
dossier and consequently cannot be considered as changes.  For these cases, 
a new dossier must be submitted. Examples of such changes are listed in 
Appendix 2. 
3.1.5. Reliance Mechanisms in Handling Variations 
For an application to be assessed through reliance, the change must be 
approved by WHO listed authority (WLA). The following conditions and 
documentation shall be fulfilled. 
 
7 
 
a) All Conditions and documentation will be required as per variations codes 
selected along with a copy of the reference SRA/ WHO decision or other 
document confirming the final decision of the reference SRA/WHO. 
b) Confirmation letter that the information (variation dossier) submitted to 
the PPB is the same as that submitted to reference SRA/WHO for the 
variation.  
Whenever FPPs have been registered on the basis of approval by a WHO listed 
authority (WLA) (innovator products or generic products) or WHO 
prequalification, subsequent applications for variations should also be 
approved by the same WLA and WHO PQP, respectively, and the Board shall 
be notified of the approval of the changes and the applicant shall submit 
proof of approval of such changes from the respective agency, if applicable.  
For products formerly registered by PPB and subsequently approved by 
WLAs, the variation(s) shall be approved based on submission of letter of 
approval of the variation(s), from the WLAs. 
For further Guidance Please refer to Guidance on Reliance Mechanisms for 
Marketing Authorization of Health Products and Technologies in Kenya  
3.2. Conditions to be Fulfilled 
For each variation, attempts have been made to identify particular 
circumstances where lower reporting requirements (N, or Vmin) are possible. 
A change that does not meet all of the conditions stipulated for these specific 
circumstances is considered to be a major variation.  
In some circumstances, Vmaj categories have been specifically stated for a 
given variation. This has been done to indicate to applicants what documents 
should be considered to be provided. This is for informational purposes only.  
3.3. Documentation Required 
For each variation, certain documents have been identified as supporting 
data.  Regardless of the documents specified, applicants should ensure that 
they have provided all relevant information to support the variation.  
a) 
A variation application form (a template can be downloaded from 
the website). All sections of this form shall be completed and the 
document signed. Electronic versions of the application form, both 
 
8 
 
as a Word document and a scanned signed PDF file, shall be 
provided; 
b) 
Replacement of the relevant sections of the dossier;  
c) 
Copies of SmPC, PIL, and labels, if relevant.  
For all changes, it remains the responsibility of the applicant to provide all 
necessary documents to demonstrate that the change does not have a 
negative effect on the safety, efficacy, or quality of the vaccine.  
The list of documentation is not intended to be comprehensive and further 
documentation may be required.  
3.4 Reporting Types for Safety, Efficacy, and/or Product Labeling 
Information Changes 
After assessing the effect of a change related to clinical use or product 
labeling information on the safe and effective use of a vaccine, MA holders 
should classify this change as belonging to one of the following categories:  
a) A safety and efficacy change;  
b) Product labeling information changes 
The product labeling information includes prescribing information (or 
package insert) for health care providers or patients, outer label (carton), and 
inner label (container label 
Further information on each category is provided in the following sections, 
with examples of efficacy, safety, and product labeling information changes 
considered to be appropriate for each category provided in Appendix 1.   
3.4.1. Safety and efficacy changes 
Safety and efficacy changes are changes that have an impact on the clinical 
use of the vaccine in relation to safety, efficacy, dosage, and administration, 
and that require data from clinical studies to support the change. Safety and 
efficacy changes require approval before implementation.  
Generally, safety and efficacy changes affect the product labeling information 
and have the potential to increase or decrease the exposure levels of the 
vaccine, either by expanding the population that is exposed or by changing 
 
9 
 
dosage or dosing. These changes may relate to the clinical use of the vaccine. 
Examples of these changes are provided in Appendix 1. 
The type and scope of the required supporting nonclinical and/or clinical 
safety and efficacy data are determined case by case based on risk benefit 
considerations related to the impact of the changes, the vaccine attributes 
and the disease that the vaccine is designed to prevent. Other considerations 
include:  
a) Robustness of the immune response elicited by the vaccine and availability 
of a correlate of protection (that is, data establishing a threshold of 
antibody needed to protect against the development of disease following 
exposure);  
b) Availability of animal models;  
c) Vaccine attributes (for example, live as opposed to inactivated vaccines).   
MA holders are encouraged to consult with the board on the adequacy of the 
clinical data needed to support a safety and efficacy change if deemed 
necessary.   
For a change under this category, the MA holder should submit an 
application to the NMRA that may include the following:  
a) Detailed description and rationale of the proposed change; 
b) Summary of the methods used and studies performed to evaluate the effect 
of the change on the vaccine's safety or efficacy;  
c) Amended product labeling information;  
d) Clinical studies (protocol, statistical analysis plan, and clinical study 
report);  
e) Clinical assay methods (including SOPs) and validations;  
f) The pharmacovigilance plan.  
 
3.4.2. Product labeling information changes 
There are two types of product Labeling information changes 
a) A product labeling information change that has impact on clinical use. 
b) An administrative product labelling information change (in cases where 
prior approval before implementation is needed).  
 
10 
 
For a change under this category, the MA holder should submit an 
application to PPB that may include the following:  
a)    Detailed description and rationale of the proposed change 
b)    Pharmacovigilance reports and statistical analysis results  
c)    Amended product labeling information.  
Administrative product labelling information changes are changes that are 
not expected to affect the safe and efficacious use of the vaccine. In some 
cases, these changes may require reporting to the PPB and receipt of approval 
prior to implementation, while in other cases reporting may not be required 
Applications for product labeling information changes related to clinical use 
often require data from pharmacovigilance reports ("periodic safety update 
reports"). Changes supported by large clinical or nonclinical studies will not 
be considered as product labelling information changes but as safety and 
efficacy changes.  Product labeling information changes that have an impact 
on clinical use require prior approval by PPB.  
Examples of these changes are provided in Appendix 1.  
3.5 
Application Process 
Applicants are expected to apply for variations using the variation application 
form (Annex 1) together with a cover letter signed and dated by the MAH.  
3.6 
Special Considerations 
3.6.1   Adjuvants 
Because adjuvants are considered to be components of vaccines, each new 
adjuvanted vaccine is considered to be a new entity that will require 
appropriate physicochemical characterization and nonclinical and clinical 
evaluation. It is the specific antigen-adjuvant formulation (as a whole) that 
is tested in nonclinical and clinical trials and which receives MA or licensure 
based on demonstration of safety and efficacy.  
There is substantial diversity among vaccine adjuvants, antigens, and the 
diseases they are designed to prevent. Therefore, the supporting information 
needed for adjuvant-related changes will depend upon product-specific 
features, clinical indications, and the impact of the change. The 
 
11 
 
recommendations in WHO Guidelines on the nonclinical evaluation of 
vaccine adjuvants and adjuvanted vaccines should be followed.  
3.6.2   Influenza vaccines 
To ensure that influenza vaccines are effective against circulating influenza 
viruses, WHO reviews global virological and epidemiological data twice a year, 
and if necessary, recommends new vaccine strain(s) by the available evidence 
for the northern and southern hemispheres, WHO and NMRAs recommend 
the use of certain vaccine virus strains based on their antigenic 
characteristics. Influenza vaccine viruses are usually derived from isolates 
obtained from laboratories in the WHO Global Influenza Surveillance and 
Response System.  
For seasonal influenza vaccines, annual changes in the vaccine strain 
composition are considered to be minor quality changes because of extensive 
experience with such changes and to maximize the flexibility and brevity of 
the review process. MA holders of approved seasonal vaccines are expected 
to submit a supplement for a minor quality change to support annual 
changes in the influenza strain composition. To allow for the timely 
distribution of vaccines, NMRAs should review the supplement as part of a 
streamlined and prompt process. The supporting quality information 
generally consists of: (a) information on the source of the seed viruses; (b) 
passage history until establishment of working seeds; (c) results of quality 
release tests performed on working virus seeds (including identity 
confirmation); and (d) specific validation data (including inactivation 
kinetics). Generally, stability data for antigen bulks or final drug products 
produced in the previous influenza season are expected to be submitted to 
continuously support the approved shelf-life. In addition, updated product 
labeling information items (package insert and inner and outer labels with 
relevant strain composition and formula year) should be provided.   
Changes to the manufacturing processes, posology and product labeling 
information of influenza vaccines that are not related to the annual update 
should follow the normal categorization process and should not be included 
in the strain change supplements to avoid delays in the approval process. 
Due to time constraints related to the seasonality of influenza vaccines, 
 
12 
 
changes that are not related to vaccine strain composition should be timed 
such that approval will allow for vaccines manufactured with the change to 
be distributed before the start of the influenza season.  
3.6.3 Bridging studies 
Clinical bridging studies are trials in which a parameter of interest (such as 
manufacturing process, formulation, or dosing schedule) is directly 
compared with a changed version of that parameter with respect to the effect 
of the change on the product’s clinical performance. The comparison of 
immune responses and safety outcomes (for example, rates of common and 
serious AEFIs) is often the primary objective. If the immune response and 
safety profiles are similar, the safety and efficacy of the vaccine can be 
inferred.  
In some cases, safety and efficacy data comparing the approved vaccine to 
the vaccine produced with the change may be required by NMRAs. The 
following are examples of manufacturing changes that may require clinical 
bridging studies:  
a) use of a new or re-derived antigen (that is, re-derived virus seed or 
bacterial cell bank) or host cell line (that is, re-derived MCB);  
b) new agents used for inactivation or splitting of the antigen;  
c) a new dosage form;  
d) a new formulation (for example, the amount of ingredients, adjuvants, 
preservatives, 
or 
reactogenic 
residual 
components 
from 
the 
manufacturing process. 
 
3.7    Summary of changes 
3.7.1 Administrative changes 
Description of change  
Conditions to be 
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
1a  
Change in the name 
and/or 
corporate 
address 
of 
the 
Marketing 
Authorization Holder 
(MAH) of the vaccine    
1  
1  
N  
 
13 
 
1b  
Company 
sale, 
purchase, merger  
2  
1, 2, 3  
N  
Conditions to be fulfilled 
1. Authorization of change from the previous MAH  
2. The marketing authorization holder shall remain the same legal entity 
Documentation required 
1. A formal document from a relevant official body (e.g. the national medicines regulatory 
authority (NMRA)) in which the new name and/or address is mentioned.  
2. Approval for sale/purchase as per statutory requirements  
3. Revised labelling 
 
Description of change  
Conditions to be  
fulfilled   
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
2  
Change 
in 
the 
name 
and/or 
address 
of 
a 
manufacturer 
of 
the vaccine  
1  
1,2  
N  
Conditions to be fulfilled 
1. No change in the location of the manufacturing site and in the manufacturing operations. 
Documentation required 
1. Copy of the modified manufacturing authorization or a formal document from a relevant 
official body (e.g., NMRA) in which the new name and/or address is mentioned.  
2. Two (2) commercial samples/colored mock up samples with name and address of the current 
manufacturing site 
 
Description of change  
Conditions to be 
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
3  
Deletion of a manufacturing site or manufacturer involving:  
  
production, 
packaging 
or 
testing 
of 
the 
intermediate or  
vaccine  
1-2  
1,2  
N  
Conditions to be fulfilled 
1) At least one other site continues to perform the same function(s) as the site(s) intended to 
be deleted.                 
2) The deletion of site is not a result of critical deficiencies in manufacturing.  
Documentation required 
1) Clear identification of the manufacturing, packaging and/or testing site to be deleted, in 
the letter accompanying the application.  
2) Two (2) commercial samples/colored mock up samples of the vaccine required ONLY if 
deleted manufacturing site appears on registered product label 
  
 
14 
 
Description of change  
Conditions to 
be fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
 4 
  
Change of Local Technical 
Representative (LTR) 
None  
1-3  
Vmaj  
Documentation required 
1) Letter of appointment from the product Marketing Authorization Holder  
2) Letter of acceptance from the proposed LTR and a copy of termination notice of previous 
LTR.  
3) List of affected products, including registration numbers. Affected products should appear 
on the current Drug Register.  
 
Description of change  
Conditions to 
be fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
5 
Change of product name 
(brand name)   
None   
1,2  
Vmin  
Conditions to be fulfilled 
1) Refer to EAC Guidelines on Naming of Medicinal Products  
Documentation required 
1) Revised product information  
2) Approval from trademark agency within the Partner States  
3) Two (2) commercial samples/ colored mock up samples of the product  
3.7.2 Changes to the antigen 
Description of change  
Conditions to 
be fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
1 
Change in the name of the 
antigen Note: This change 
generally applies only to 
influenza 
vaccines 
(see 
section 3.6.2). 
None   
1,2 
Vmin 
Documentation required 
1. Revised product labelling information  
2.  Information on the proposed nomenclature of the antigen and evidence that the proposed 
name for the antigen is recognized (for example, proof of acceptance by WHO).  
3.7.3 Manufacture 
Description of change  
Conditions to be 
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
2 
Change to an antigen manufacturing facility:  
  
2a 
Replacement or 
addition 
of 
a 
manufacturing 
facility for the 
antigen bulk, or  
any 
intermediate of 
the antigen  
None   
1-4, 6-8  
Vmaj 
1-4  
2,4-8  
Vmin 
 
15 
 
2b 
Deletion 
of 
a 
manufacturing 
facility 
or 
manufacture of 
an antigen  
intermediate, or 
antigen bulk 
5-6  
None  
N 
 
Conditions to be fulfilled 
1) The new manufacturing facility /suite is an approved antigen manufacturing site  
2) Any changes to the manufacturing process and/or controls are considered either minor or 
Immediate Notification  
3) The new facility/suite is under the same quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) 
oversight.  
4) The proposed change does not involve additional containment requirements.  
5) There should remain at least one site/manufacturer, as previously authorized, performing 
the same function as the one(s) to be deleted.  
6) The deletion should not be due to critical deficiencies in manufacturing (such as recurrent 
deviations, recurrent out-of-specification events, environmental monitoring failures and so 
on).  
Documentation required 
1) Evidence that the facility is GMP compliant 
2) Name, address and responsibility of the proposed facility  
3) Process validation study reports  
4) Comparability of the pre-and post-change antigen with respect to physicochemical 
properties, biological activity, purity, impurities and contaminants, as appropriate. 
Nonclinical and/or clinical bridging studies may occasionally be required when quality data 
are insufficient to establish comparability. The extent and nature of nonclinical and/or 
clinical studies should be determined on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration 
the quality-comparability findings, the nature and level of knowledge of the vaccine, existing 
relevant nonclinical and clinical data, and aspects of vaccine use.  
5) Justification for the classification of any manufacturing process and/or control changes as 
minor or Immediate Notification.  
6) Description of the batches and summary of in-process and release testing results as 
quantitative data, in a comparative tabular format, for at least three (3) consecutive 
commercial-scale batches of the pre-and post-change antigen. Comparative pre-change test 
results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant historical testing results are 
acceptable. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of smaller-scale batches, and/or the use of fewer 
than 3 batches may be acceptable where justified and agreed by the NMRA.  
7) Comparative pre-and post-change test results for the manufacturer's characterized key 
stability indicating attributes for at least three (3) commercial-scale antigen batches 
produced with the proposed changes under real-time/real-temperature testing conditions. 
Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical results for lots on the stability programme are acceptable. The data should cover 
a minimum of 3 months of testing unless otherwise justified. Additionally, the 
manufacturer should commit to undertake real-time stability studies to support the full 
shelf-life /hold-time of the antigen under its normal storage conditions and to report to the 
NMRA any failures in these ongoing long-term stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the 
use of smaller-scale batches, and/or the use of fewer than 3 batches and/or use of forced 
degradation or accelerated temperature conditions for stability testing may be acceptable 
where justified and agreed by the NMRA.  
8) Updated post approval stability protocol.   
  
Description of change 
Conditions 
to 
be fulfilled  
Documentation 
required 
Reporting 
 type 
3 
Change to the antigen fermentation, viral propagation or cellular 
 
16 
 
propagation process 
3a 
A critical change (a change 
with 
high 
potential 
to 
impact the quality of the 
antigen or final product) 
(e.g. 
incorporation 
of 
disposable 
bioreactor 
technology) 
None 
1-7, 9, 11 
Vmaj 
3b 
A change with moderate 
potential to impact quality 
of the antigen or final 
product (e.g. extension of 
the in vitro cell age beyond 
validated parameters) 
2,4 
1-6, 8, 10 
Vmin 
3c 
A non-critical change with 
minimal 
potential 
to 
impact the quality of the 
antigen or final product 
(e.g. change in harvesting 
and/or pooling procedures 
which does not affect the 
method of manufacture, 
recovery, 
intermediate 
storage 
conditions, 
sensitivity of detection of 
adventitious 
agents, 
or 
production 
scale; 
or 
duplication 
of 
a 
fermentation train) 
1-6, 9-11 
1-4 
N 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Change to the antigen purification process involving; 
4a 
A critical change (a change 
with 
high 
potential 
to 
impact the quality of the 
antigen or final product) 
(e.g. change that could 
potentially impact the viral 
clearance capacity of the 
process or the impurity 
profile of the antigen) 
None 
1,2,5-7,9,11,12 
Vmaj 
 
17 
 
4b 
A change with moderate 
potential to impact quality 
of the antigen or final 
product (e.g. change in the 
chemical 
separation 
method, for example ion-
exchange HPLC to reverse 
phase HPLC) 
2,4 
1,2,5-7, 10,11 
Vmin 
4c 
A non-critical change with 
minimal 
potential 
to 
impact the quality of the 
antigen or final product 
(e.g. addition of an in-line 
filtration step equivalent to 
the 
approved 
filtration 
step) 
1-5 
1,2 
N 
 
5 
Change in scale of the manufacturing process: 
5a 
At the fermentation, viral 
propagation 
or 
cellular 
propagation stage 
3-6, 11-13 
2,3,5-7,9,11 
Vmin 
5b 
At the purification stage 
1,3,5,7 
2,5-7,9,11 
Vmin 
 
6 
Change in supplier of raw 
materials/reagents 
of 
biological origin (e.g. fetal 
calf 
serum, 
insulin, 
human serum albumin) 
None 
4,8,12,13 
Vmin 
8 
4,8 
N 
 
7 
Change in source of raw 
materials/reagents 
of 
biological origin 
None 
4,7,12,13 
Vmin 
8 
4,7 
N 
 
8 
Introduction 
of 
reprocessing steps 
14 
8,10,11,14 
Vmin 
Conditions to be fulfilled 
1. No change in the principles of the sterilization procedures of the antigen 
2. The change does not impact the viral clearance data or the chemical nature of an 
inactivating agent. 
3. No change in the antigen specification outside of the approved limits. 
4. No change in the impurity profile of the antigen outside of the approved limits. 
5. The change is not necessitated by recurring events arising during manufacture or because 
of stability concerns 
 
18 
 
6. The change does not affect the purification process. 
7. The change in scale is linear with respect to the proportionality of production parameters 
and materials. 
8. The change is for compendial raw materials of biological origin (excluding human plasma-
derived materials). 
9. The new fermentation train is identical to the approved fermentation strain(s). 
10. No change in the approved in vitro cell age. 
11. The change is not expected to have an impact on the quality, safety or efficacy of the final 
product. 
12. No change in the proportionality of the raw materials (i.e. the change in scale is linear) 
13. The change in scale involves the use of the same bioreactor (i.e. does not involve the use 
of a larger bioreactor). 
14. The need for reprocessing is not due to recurrent deviations from the validated process and 
the root cause triggering reprocessing is identified.  
Documentation required 
1) Justification for the classification of the change(s) as major, minor or immediate 
notification as this relates to the impact on the quality of the antigen 
2) Flow diagram (including process and in-process controls) of the proposed manufacturing 
process(es) and a brief narrative description of the proposed manufacturing process(es). 
3) If the change results in an increase in the number of populations doublings or sub 
cultivations, information on the characterization and testing of the post-production cell 
bank for recombinant product, or of the antigen for non-recombinant product. 
4) For antigens obtained from, or manufactured with, reagents  obtained from sources that 
are at risk of transmitting bovine  spongiform encephalopathy/transmissible spongiform  
encephalopathy (BSE/TSE) agents (for example, ruminant origin), information and 
evidence that the material does not pose a potential BSE/TSE risk (for example, name of 
manufacturer, species and tissues from which the material is a derivative, country of origin 
of the source animals, and use and previous acceptance of the material). 
5) Process validation study reports  
6) Comparability of the pre-and post-change antigen with respect to physicochemical 
properties, biological activity, purity, impurities and contaminants, as appropriate. 
Nonclinical and/or clinical bridging studies may occasionally be required when quality 
data are insufficient to establish comparability. The extent and nature of nonclinical 
and/or clinical studies should be determined on a case-by-case basis, taking into 
consideration the quality-comparability findings, the nature and level of knowledge of the 
vaccine, existing relevant nonclinical and clinical data, and aspects of vaccine use. 
7) Description of the batches and summary of in-process and release testing results as 
quantitative data, in a comparative tabular format, for at least three (3) consecutive 
commercial-scale batches of the pre-and post-change antigen. Comparative pre-change 
test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant historical testing results are 
acceptable. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of smaller-scale batches, and/or the use of fewer 
than 3 batches may be acceptable where justified and agreed by the NMRA. 
8) Description of the batches and summary of in-process and release testing results as 
quantitative data, in a comparative tabular format, for one (1) commercial-scale batch of 
the pre- and post-change antigen. Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be 
generated concurrently; relevant historical testing results are acceptable. Batch data on 
the next two full-production batches should be made available on request and should be 
reported by the MA holder if outside the specification (with proposed action). The use of a 
smaller-scale batch may be acceptable where justified and agreed by the NMRA.  
9) Comparative pre- and post-change test results for the manufacturer’s characterized key 
stability-indicating attributes for at least three (3) commercial scale antigen batches 
produced with the proposed changes under real-time/real temperature testing conditions. 
Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical results for lots on the stability programme are acceptable. The data should cover 
a minimum of 3 months of testing unless otherwise justified. Additionally, the 
 
19 
 
manufacturer should commit to undertake real-time stability studies to support the full 
shelf-life/hold-time of the antigen under its normal storage conditions and to report to the 
NMRA any failures in these ongoing long-term stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the 
use of smaller-scale batches, the use of fewer than 3 batches and/or use of forced 
degradation or accelerated temperature conditions for stability testing may be acceptable 
where justified and agreed by the NMRA. 
10) Comparative pre- and post-change test results for the manufacturer’s characterized key 
stability-indicating attributes for at least one (1) commercial-scale antigen batch produced 
with the proposed changes under real-time/real-temperature testing conditions. 
Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical results for lots on the stability programme are acceptable. The data should cover 
a minimum of 3 months of testing unless otherwise justified. Additionally, the 
manufacturer should commit to undertake real-time stability studies to support the full 
shelf-life/hold-time of the antigen under its normal storage conditions and to report to the 
NMRA any failures in these ongoing long-term stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the 
use of smaller-scale batches, and/or use of forced degradation or accelerated temperature 
conditions for stability testing may be acceptable where justified and agreed by the NMRA. 
11) Updated post-approval stability protocol and stability commitment to place the first 
commercial-scale batch of the final product manufactured using the post-change antigen 
into the stability programme. 
12) Information assessing the risk with respect to potential contamination with adventitious 
agents (for example, impact on viral clearance studies and BSE/TSE risk)  
13) Information demonstrating comparability of the raw materials/reagents of both sources. 
14) Data describing the root cause triggering the reprocessing, as well as validation data (for 
example, extended hold-times and resistance to additional mechanical stress) to help 
prevent the reprocessing from having an impact on the antigen. 
 
 
Description of change  
Conditions to be  
fulfilled 
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
9  
Changes to the cell banks:  
Note: New cell substrates that are unrelated to the MCB or pre-MCB material generally 
require a new application for marketing authorization  
9a  
generation of a new 
Master Cell  
Bank 
1 
1,2,5,7-9 
Vmin 
9b  
generation of a new 
Working Cell  
Bank (WCB)  
None 
1,2 
Vmin 
2-4 
1,2 
N 
9c  
Change in cell bank 
storage site  
7 
10 
N 
  
10  
Changes to the seed lots:  
Note: New viral or bacterial seeds that are unrelated to the MSL or pre-MSL material 
generally require a new application for marketing authorization  
10a  
Generation of a new 
Master Seed  
Lot (MSL) 
1 
1,5-9, 11  
Vmaj 
  
 
20 
 
10b  
Generation of a new 
Working  
Seed Lot (WSL)  
2,3 
5-9, 11  
Vmin 
2-4 
5-6, 11  
N 
10c  
Generation of a new 
Working  
Seed Lot (WSL) by 
extending the 
passage level of an 
existing WSL beyond 
an approved level  
None 
5-7,11 
Vmin 
10d  
Change in seed  
lot storage site  
7 
10 
N 
  
11  
Change in cell 
bank/seed lot  
testing site  
5,7 
10 
N 
12  
Change in cell 
bank/seed lot  
qualification protocol 
None 
3,4 
Vmin 
7 
4 
N 
 Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. The new MCB is generated from pre-approved MCB or WCB or the new MSL is generated 
from a pre-approved MSL or WSL  
2. The new cell bank/seed lot is generated from a pre-approved MCB/MSL  
3. The new cell bank/seed lot is the pre-approved passage level  
4. The new cell bank/seed lot is released according to a pre-approved protocol/process or as 
described in the original license.  
5. No changes have been made to the tests/acceptance criteria used for the release of the cell 
bank/seed lot. 
6. The protocol is considered more stringent (i.e. addition of new tests or narrowing of 
acceptance criteria).  
7. No changes have been made to the storage conditions used for the cell bank/seed lot and 
the transport conditions of the cell bank/seed lots have been validated.  
Documentation to be supplied 
1. Qualification of the cell bank or seed lot according to guidelines considered acceptable by 
the NMRA.  
2. Information on the characterization and testing of the MCB/WCB, and cells from the end-
of production passage or post-production passage.  
3. Justification of the change to the cell bank/seed lot qualification protocol  
4. Updated cell bank/seed lot qualification protocol  
5. Comparability of the pre and post change antigen with respect to physicochemical 
properties, biological activity, purity, impurities and contaminants, as appropriate, 
Nonclinical and/or clinical bridging studies may occasionally be required when quality data 
are insufficient to establish comparability. The extent and nature of nonclinical and/or 
clinical studies should be determined on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration the 
quality comparability findings, the nature and level of the knowledge of the vaccine, existing 
relevant nonclinical and clinical data, and aspects of vaccine use.   
6. Quality control test results as quantitative data in tabular format for the new seed lot.  
7. Description of the batches and summary of in-process and release testing results as 
quantitative data, in a comparative tabular format, for at least three (3) consecutive 
commercial-scale batches of the antigen derived from the new cell bank/seed lot. Matrixing, 
bracketing, the use of smaller-scale batches, and/or the use of fewer than 3 batches may 
be acceptable where justified and agreed by the NMRA.  
8. Comparative pre and post change test results for the manufacturer's characterized key 
stability indicating attributes with at least three (3) commercial-scale antigen batches 
produced with the proposed changes under real-time/real-temperature testing conditions. 
Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical results for lots on the stability programme are acceptable.  The data should cover 
 
21 
 
a minimum of 3 months testing unless otherwise justified. Additionally, the manufacturer 
should commit to undertake real-time stability studies to support the full shelf-life/hold 
time of the antigen under its normal storage conditions and to report to the NMRA any 
failures in these ongoing long-term stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of 
smaller-scale batches, the use of fewer than 3 batches and or use of forced degradation or 
accelerated temperature conditions for stability testing may be acceptable where justified 
and agreed by the NMRA.  
9. Update post-approval stability protocol.  
10. Evidence that the new company/facility is GMP-compliant  
11. Revised information on the quality and controls of critical starting   materials (for example, 
specific pathogen-free eggs and chickens) used in the generation of the new WSL, where 
applicable 
3.7.4 Change in equipment used 
Description of change 
Conditions to be 
fulfilled 
Documentation 
required 
Reporting 
type 
13 
Change in equipment used in the antigen manufacturing process, such as; 
13a 
Introduction of new equipment 
with different operating principles 
and different product contact 
material 
None 
1-6 
Vmin 
13b 
Introduction of new equipment 
with the same operating 
principles and different product 
contact material 
None 
1,3-6 
Vmin 
13c 
Introduction of new equipment 
with the different operating 
principles but the same product 
contact material 
None 
1-3, 5,6 
Vmin 
13d 
Replacement of equipment with 
equivalent equipment (including 
filter) 
None 
1,5-7 
N 
Conditions to be fulfilled 
None 
Documentation required 
1. Information on the in-process control testing. 
2. Process validation study reports. 
3. Description of the batches and summary of results as quantitative data, in a comparative 
tabular format, for one (1) commercial-scale batch of the antigen produced with the 
approved and proposed product contact equipment/ material. Batch data on the next two 
full-production batches should be made available on request and reported by the MA 
holder if outside specification (with proposed action). 
4. Information on leachables and extractables. 
5. Information on the new equipment and comparison of similarities and difference 
regarding operating principles and specifications between the new and the replaced 
equipment. 
6. Information demonstrating requalification of the equipment or requalification of the 
change. 
7. Rationale for regarding the equipment as similar/comparable, as applicable.  
 
3.7.5 Change in specifications for Materials 
Description of change  
Conditions 
to 
be fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
14  
Change in specification for the materials, involving:  
  
 
22 
 
14a  
Raw materials/ 
intermediates: 
widening 
of 
the 
approved specification 
limits 
for 
starting 
materials/ 
intermediates, which  
may have a significant 
effect on the overall 
quality of the antigen  
and/or final product 
and are not changes to  
the cell banks or seed 
lots 
None  
1,3-6, 8,11  
Vmin  
 
14b  
Raw 
materials/intermedia
tes: narrowing of the 
approved 
specification 
limits 
for 
starting 
materials/intermedia
tes  
1-4 
1,3-7 
N 
  
15  
Change to in-process tests and/or acceptance criteria applied during manufacture of 
the antigen, involving:  
15a  
Narrowing 
of 
in 
process limits  
3,5,8,9 
2,6 
Vmin 
15b  
Addition of new in-
process 
test 
and 
limits  
4,5,10,11 
2-6,8,10 
Vmin 
15c  
Deletion 
of 
a 
nonsignificant 
in 
process test  
4-6 
2,6,9 
Vmin 
 
15d  
Widening 
of 
the 
approved in- 
process limits  
None 
2-6,8,10,11 
Vmin 
3-5 
2,6,8,10,11 
Vmin 
15e  
Deletion of an in-
process test which 
may 
have 
a 
significant 
effect  
on        the overall 
quality of the antigen  
None 
2,6,8,10 
Vmin 
15f  
Addition          or 
replacement of an in-
process test as a 
result of a safety or 
quality issue  
None 
2-6,8,10 
Vmin 
  
  
 
23 
 
16  
Change       in      in- 
process 
controls 
testing site  
3-5,7,8 
12 
N 
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. The change in specification for the materials is within the approved limits.  
2. The grade of the materials is the same or is of higher quality, where appropriate.  
3. No change in the antigen specification outside the approved limits.  
4. No change in the impurity profile of the antigen outside the approved limits.  
5. The change is not necessitated by recurring events arising during manufacture or 
because of stability concerns.  
6. The test does not concern a critical attribute (for example, content, impurity, any critical 
physical characteristics or microbial purity).  
7. The replaced analytical procedure maintains or tightens precision, accuracy, specificity 
and sensitivity, if applicable.  
8. No change in the in-process controls outside the approved limits.  
9. The test procedure remains the same, or changes in the test procedure are minor.  
10. Any new test method does not concern a novel non-standard technique or a standard 
technique used in a novel way.  
11. The new test method is not a biological/immunological/immunochemical or 
physicochemical method or a method using a biological reagent (does not include 
standard pharmacopeial microbiological methods). 
Documentation to be supplied 
1. Revised information on the quality and controls of the materials (for example, raw 
materials, starting materials, solvents, reagents and catalysts) used in the manufacture 
of the post-change antigen.  
2. Revised information on the controls performed at critical steps of the manufacturing 
process and on intermediates of the proposed antigen.  
3. Updated antigen specification, if changed.  
4. Copies or summaries of analytical procedures, if new analytical procedures are used.  
5. Validation study reports, if new analytical procedures are used.  
6. Comparative table or description, where applicable, of pre- and post-change in process 
tests/limits.  
7. Description of the batches and summary of in-process and release testing result as 
quantitative data, in a comparative tabular format, for one (1) commercial-scale batch of 
the pre- and post-change antigen. Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be 
generated concurrently; relevant historical testing results are acceptable. Batch data on 
the next two full production batches should be made available on request and reported 
by the MA holder if outside specification (with proposed action). The use of a smaller-
scale batch may be acceptable where justified and agreed by the NMRA.  
8. Description of the batches and summary of in-process and release testing results as 
quantitative data, in a comparative tabular format, for at least three (3) consecutive 
commercial-scale batches of the pre- and post-change antigen. Comparative pre-change 
test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant historical testing results 
are acceptable. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of smaller-scale batches and/or the use of 
fewer than 3 batches may be acceptable where justified and agreed by the NMRA.  
9. Justification/risk assessment showing that the attribute is nonsignificant.  
10. Justification for the new in-process test and limits.  
11. Comparative pre- and post-change test results for the manufacturer’s characterized key 
stability-indicating attributes for at least three (3) commercial scale final product batches 
produced with the proposed changes under real-time/ real-temperature testing 
conditions. Comparative pre- change test results do not need to be generated 
concurrently; relevant historical results for lots on the stability programme are 
acceptable. The data should cover a minimum of 3 months testing unless otherwise 
justified. Additionally, the manufacturer should commit to undertake real-time stability 
studies to support the full shelf-life/ hold-time of the final product under its normal 
storage conditions and to report to the NMRA any failures in these ongoing long-term 
stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of smaller- scale batches, the use of fewer 
than 3 batches and/ or use of forced degradation or accelerated temperature conditions 
for stability testing may be acceptable where justified and agreed by the NMRA.  
 
24 
 
12. Evidence that the new company/facility is GMP compliant. 
3.7.6 Control of the antigen 
Description of change  
Conditions to be 
fulfilled   
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
17  
Change affecting the quality control (QC) (release and stability) testing of the 
antigen, involving:  
17a  
transfer of the QC 
testing activities for a 
non- 
pharmacopeial 
assay 
to 
a 
new 
company 
not 
approved 
in 
the 
current MA or license 
1-3  
1,2  
N  
17b  
transfer of the  
QC testing activities 
for 
 
 
 
a 
pharmacopoeia 
assay 
to 
a 
new 
company 
not 
approved 
in 
the 
current MA or license  
1  
1,2  
N  
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1) 
The transferred QC test is not a potency assay (for example, the test may be a bioassay 
such as an endotoxin assay or sterility assay).  
2) 
No changes to the test method.  
3) 
 Transfer within a site approved in the current MA for the performance of other tests.  
Documentation required  
1) 
Information demonstrating technology transfer qualification.  
2) 
Evidence that the new company/facility is GMP compliant.  
  
Description of change  
Conditions 
to 
be fulfilled   
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
18 
Change in the specification used to release the antigen, involving:  
18a 
deletion of a test  
None 
1,5,8 
Vmin 
18b 
addition of a test  
1-3 
1-3, 5  
N 
18c 
replacement    of an 
analytical 
procedure  
None 
1-5 
Vmin 
 
25 
 
18d 
change in animal 
species/strains 
for 
a 
test 
(for 
example, 
new 
species/strains, 
animals of different  
age, new supplier 
where 
genotype 
of 
the 
animal 
cannot 
be 
confirmed)  
None 
6,7 
Vmin 
 
18e 
minor changes to 
an 
approved 
analytical 
procedure  
4-7 
1,4,5 
N 
18f 
change from an in-
house 
analytical 
procedure 
to 
a 
recognized 
compendial/ 
pharmacopeial 
analytical 
procedure  
4,7 
1-3 
N 
18g 
widening 
of 
an 
acceptance 
criterion  
None 
1,5,8 
Vmin 
18h  
narrowing 
of 
an 
acceptance 
criterion  
1,8,9, 
1 
N 
1) 
The change does not result from unexpected events arising during manufacture (for 
example, new unqualified impurity or change in total impurity limits).  
2) 
No change in the limits/acceptance criteria outside the approved limits for the approved 
assays.  
3) 
The addition of the test is not intended to monitor new impurity species.  
4) 
No change in the acceptance criteria outside the approved limits.  
5) 
The method of analysis is the same and is based on the same analytical technique or 
principle (for example, a change in column length or temperature, but not a different type 
of column or method) and no new impurities are detected.  
6) 
The modified analytical procedure maintains or tightens precision, accuracy, specificity, 
and sensitivity.  
7) 
The change does not concern potency testing.  
8) 
Acceptance criteria for residuals are within recognized or approved acceptance limits (for 
example, within ICH limits for a Class 3 residual solvent, or pharmacopeial requirements).  
9) 
 The analytical procedure remains the same, or changes to the analytical procedure are 
minor.  
Documentation required  
1) Updated antigen specification.  
2) Copies or summaries of analytical procedures, if new analytical procedures are used.  
3) Validation reports, if new analytical procedures are used.  
4) Comparative results demonstrating that the approved and proposed analytical procedures 
are equivalent.  
5) Justification for deletion of the test or for the proposed antigen specification (for example, 
tests, acceptance criteria or analytical procedures).  
6) Data demonstrating that the change in animals/strains give results comparable to those 
obtained using the approved animals/strains. 
7) Copies of relevant certificate of fitness for use (for example, veterinary certificate  
 
26 
 
8)  Declaration/evidence that consistency of quality and of the production process is 
maintained 
3.7.7 Reference standards or materials 
Description of change  
Conditions 
to 
be fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
19  
Qualification of a new 
reference 
standard 
against a new primary 
international 
standard  
None  
1,2  
Vmin  
20  
Change in the  
reference 
standard 
from 
in-house 
(no 
relationship 
with 
international 
standard) 
to 
pharmacopeial 
or 
international 
standard  
None  
1,2  
Vmin  
21  
Qualification of a new 
lot 
of 
reference 
standard against the 
approved 
reference 
standard 
(including 
qualification of a new 
lot of a secondary 
reference 
standard 
against the approved 
primary standard) 
1  
1,2  
Vmin  
22 
Change to reference 
standard 
qualification protocol  
None 
3,4 
Vmin 
23 
Extension 
of 
reference standard  
shelf-life 
2 
5 
N 
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. 
Qualification of the new reference standard is according to an approved protocol.  
2. 
The extension of the shelf-life is according to an approved protocol.  
Documentation required  
1. Justification for the change in reference standard.  
2. Information demonstrating qualification of the proposed reference standards or materials 
(for example, source, characterization, certificate of analysis and comparability data).  
3. Justification of the change to the reference standard qualification protocol.  
4. Updated reference standard qualification protocol.  
5. Summary of stability testing and results to support the extension of reference standard 
shelf-life.  
3.7.8 Container closure system 
 
27 
 
Description of change  
Conditions to be  
fulfilled  
Documentation to 
be supplied  
Reporting type  
24  
Change in the primary 
container 
closure 
system(s) 
for 
the 
storage and shipment 
of the antigen  
None  
1,2,4,5  
Vmin  
1 
  
1,3,5 
  
N  
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. The proposed container closure system is at least equivalent to the approved container 
closure system with respect to its relevant properties.  
Documentation required  
1. Information on the proposed container closure system (for example, description, composition, 
materials of construction of primary packaging components and specification).  
2. Data demonstrating the suitability of the container closure system (for example, 
extractable/leachable testing).  
3. Results demonstrating that the proposed container closure system is at least equivalent to 
the approved container closure system with respect to its relevant properties (for example, 
results of transportation or interaction studies, and extractable/leachable studies).  
4. Comparative pre- and post-change test results for the manufacturer’s characterized key 
stability-indicating attributes for at least three (3) commercial scale antigen batches produced 
with the proposed changes under real-time/real-temperature testing conditions. 
5. Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical results for lots on the stability programme are acceptable. The data should cover a 
minimum of 3 months testing unless otherwise justified. Additionally, the manufacturer 
should commit to undertake real-time stability studies to support the full shelf life/ hold-
time of the antigen under its normal storage conditions and to report to the NMRA any failures 
in these ongoing long-term stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of smaller-scale 
batches, the use of fewer than 3 batches and/or use of forced degradation or accelerated 
temperature conditions for stability testing may be acceptable where justified and agreed by 
the NMRA  
6. Comparative table of pre- and post-change specifications 
 
Description of change  
Conditions to be  
fulfilled  
Documentation to 
be supplied  
Reporting type  
25  
Change in the specification of the primary container closure system for the 
antigen, involving:  
25a  
deletion of a test  
1,2  
1,2  
N  
25b  
addition of a test  
3  
1-3  
N  
25c  
replacement of an  
analytical 
procedure  
6,7  
1-3  
N  
25d  
minor changes to 
an 
analytical 
procedure  
4-7  
1-3  
N  
25e  
widening 
of 
an 
acceptance 
criterion  
None  
1,2  
Vmin  
25f  
Narrowing 
of 
an 
acceptance 
criterion  
8  
1  
N  
Conditions to be fulfilled  
 
28 
 
1) 
The deleted test has been demonstrated to be redundant compared to the remaining tests 
or is no longer a pharmacopeial requirement.  
2) 
The change to the specification does not affect the functional properties of the container 
closure component nor result in a potential impact on the performance of the antigen.  
3) 
The change is not necessitated by recurring events arising during manufacture or because 
of stability concerns.  
4) 
There is no change in the acceptance criteria outside the approved limits.  
5) 
The new analytical procedure is of the same type.  
6) 
Results of method validation demonstrate that the new or modified analytical procedure 
is at least equivalent to the approved analytical procedure.  
7) 
The new or modified analytical procedure maintains or tightens precision, accuracy, 
specificity and sensitivity  
8) 
 The change is within the range of approved acceptance criteria or has been made to reflect 
a new pharmacopeial monograph specification for the container closure component. 
Documentation to be supplied 
1) 
Updated copy of the proposed specification for the primary container closure system.  
2) 
Rationale for the change in specification for a primary container closure system.  
3) 
Description of the analytical procedure and, if applicable, validation data. 
  
 
 
3.7.9 Stability of the drug substance or intermediate 
Description of change  
Conditions to be 
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
26  
Change in the shelf-life/hold-time for the antigen or for a stored intermediate of the 
antigen, involving:  
26a  
Extension  
None  
1-5  
Vmin  
1-5  
1,2,5  
N  
26b  
reduction  
None  
1-5  
Vmin  
6  
2-4  
N  
Conditions to be fulfilled   
1. No changes to the container closure system in direct contact with the antigen with the 
potential of impact on the antigen, or to the recommended storage conditions of the antigen. 
2. The approved shelf-life is at least 24 months.  
3. Full long-term stability data are available covering the proposed shelf-life and are based on 
stability data generated on at least three (3) commercial-scale batches.  
4. Stability data were generated in accordance with the approved stability protocol.  
5. Significant changes were not observed in the stability data.  
6. The reduction in the shelf-life is not necessitated by recurring events arising during 
manufacture or because of stability concerns. Note: Problems arising during manufacturing 
or stability concerns should be reported for evaluation. 
Documentation required 
 
29 
 
1. Summary of stability testing and results (for example, studies conducted, protocols used 
and results obtained).  
2. Proposed storage conditions and shelf-life, as appropriate.  
3. Updated post-approval stability protocol and stability commitment.  
4. Justification of the change to the post-approval stability protocol or stability commitment. 
5. Results of stability testing (that is, full real-time/real-temperature stability data covering 
the proposed shelf-life generated on at least three (3) commercial-scale batches). For 
intermediates, data to show that the extension of shelf-life has no negative impact on the 
quality of the antigen. Under special circumstances and with prior agreement of the NMRA, 
interim stability testing results and a commitment to notify the NMRA of any failures in the 
ongoing long-term stability studies may be provided. 
  
Description of change  
Conditions to be  
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
27  
Change in the post-approval stability protocol of the antigen, involving:  
27a  
significant change 
to 
the 
post- 
approval 
stability protocol 
or 
stability 
commitment, 
such as deletion 
of 
a 
test, 
replacement of an 
analytical 
procedure 
or 
change in storage 
temperature  
None  
1-6  
Vmin  
1  
1,2,4-6  
N  
27b  
addition of time 
point(s) into the 
post-approval 
stability protocol  
None  
4,6  
N  
27c  
addition of test(s) 
into the post  
approval stability 
protocol  
2  
1,2,4,6  
N  
27d  
deletion of time 
point(s) from the 
post-approval 
stability protocol  
beyond                the 
approved       shelf-
life  
None  
4,6  
N  
27e  
deletion of time 
point(s) from the 
post-approval 
stability protocol  
within 
the 
approved 
shelf- 
life 
3  
4,6  
N  
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1) 
For the replacement of an analytical procedure, the new analytical procedure maintains or 
tightens precision, accuracy, specificity and sensitivity.  
 
30 
 
2) 
The addition of test(s) is not due to stability concerns or to the identification of new 
impurities.  
3) 
The approved antigen shelf-life is at least 24 months.  
Documentation to be supplied  
1) Copies or summaries of analytical procedures, if new analytical procedures are used.  
2) Validation study reports, if new analytical procedures are used.  
3) Proposed storage conditions and/or shelf-life, as appropriate.  
4) Updated post-approval stability protocol and stability commitment.  
5) If applicable, stability testing results to support the change to the post-approval stability 
protocol or stability commitment (for example, data showing greater reliability of the 
alternative test).  
6) Justification for the change to the post-approval stability protocol.  
  
Description of change  
Conditions 
to 
be 
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
28  
Change in the storage conditions for the antigen, involving:  
28a  
addition 
or 
change 
of 
storage condition for the 
antigen 
(for 
example, 
widening or narrowing of a 
temperature criterion)  
  
None  
1-4  
Vmin  
1,2  
1-3  
N  
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1) 
The change is not necessitated by recurring events arising during manufacture or because 
of stability concerns.  
2) 
The change consists in the narrowing of a temperature criterion within the approved 
ranges.  
Documentation to be supplied  
1) 
Proposed storage conditions and shelf-life.  
2) 
Updated post-approval stability protocol and stability commitment.  
3) 
Justification of the change in the labelled storage conditions/cautionary statement  
4) 
Results of stability testing (that is, full real-time/real-temperature stability data covering 
the proposed shelf-life generated on at least three (3) commercial scale batches).  
  
3.7.10 Changes to the final product 
Description of change  
Conditions to be 
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
29  
Change in the description or composition of the final product, involving:  
 
31 
 
29a  
addition of a dosage 
form or change in 
the formulation (for 
example, 
lyophilized powder 
to liquid, change in 
the 
amount 
of 
excipient 
or 
new 
diluent 
for 
lyophilized product)  
  
Note: 
Change 
in 
formulation does  
not 
include 
changes in  
antigen(s) or  
adjuvants. 
A 
change 
in 
antigen(s) 
or 
adjuvant(s)  
requires the  
filing 
of 
a 
new 
application      for 
MA 
or 
licensure. 
MA holders     are 
encouraged     to 
contact the  
NMRA for further 
guidance. 
None  
1-10  
Vmaj  
 
29b  
change 
in 
fill 
volume 
(that 
is, 
same concentration, 
different volume) 
None  
1,5,7,10  
Vmaj  
1,2 
1,5,7 
Vmin 
1-3 
5,7 
N 
 
29c  
addition           of a 
new 
presentation 
(for 
example, 
addition of a  
new prefilled  
syringe where the 
approved 
presentation is a 
vial for a vaccine in 
a liquid  
dosage form) 
None  
1,5,7-10  
Vmaj  
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1) 
No changes classified as major in the manufacturing process to accommodate the new 
fill volume.  
2) 
No change in the dose recommended.  
3) 
Narrowing of fill volume while maintaining the lower limit of extractable volume.  
Documentation required  
 
32 
 
1) 
Revised final product labelling information (as applicable).  
2) 
 Characterization        data   demonstrating      that   the    conformation and 
immunogenicity of the antigen is comparable in the new dosage form and/or 
formulation.  
3) 
Description and composition of the dosage form if there are changes to the composition 
or dose.  
4) 
Discussion of the components of the final product, as appropriate (for example, choice 
of excipients, compatibility of antigen and excipients, leachates or compatibility with 
new container closure system, as appropriate).  
5) 
Information on the batch formula, manufacturing process and process controls, control 
of critical steps and intermediates, and process validation study reports.  
6) 
Control of excipients, if new excipients are proposed (for example, specification).  
7) 
Information on specification, analytical procedures (if new analytical methods are used), 
validation of analytical procedures (if new analytical methods are used), batch analyses 
(certificate of analysis for three (3) consecutive commercial-scale batches should be 
provided). Bracketing for multiple strength products, container sizes and/or fills may be 
acceptable if scientifically justified.  
8) 
Information on the container closure system and leachable and extractables, if any of 
the components have changed (for example, description, materials of construction and 
summary of specification).  
9) 
Comparative pre- and post-change test results for the manufacturer’s characterized key 
stability-indicating attributes for at least three (3) commercial-scale final product 
batches produced with the proposed changes under real-time/real-temperature testing 
conditions. Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated 
concurrently; relevant historical results for lots on the stability programme are 
acceptable. The data should cover a minimum of 3 months testing unless otherwise 
justified. Additionally, the manufacturer should commit to undertake real-time stability 
studies to support the full shelf-life/hold-time of the final product under its normal 
storage conditions and to report to the NMRA any failures in these ongoing long-term 
stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of smaller-scale batches, the use of fewer 
than 3 batches and/or use of forced degradation or accelerated temperature conditions 
for stability testing may be acceptable where justified and agreed by the NMRA. 
10) 
 Supporting clinical data or a justification for why such studies are not needed 
Description and composition of the final product: change to an adjuvant 
Note:  
a) Change in the type/structure of a chemical adjuvant, in the type of a 
biological adjuvant, or a component of a biological adjuvant may 
necessitate the filing of a new application for MA or licensure. MA 
holders are encouraged to contact the NMRA for further guidance.  
b) For additional guidance on the required supporting data for quality 
changes for chemical and biological adjuvants, see recommendations 
for other changes to the final product, such as changes to facilities, 
equipment, manufacturing process, quality control, shelf-life, and so 
on, as applicable  
 
Description of change  
Conditions to be 
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
30  
Change involving an approved chemical/synthetic adjuvant:  
30a  
change in supplier 
of 
a 
chemical/ 
synthetic adjuvant  
None  
4,5,10,11  
Vmin  
1-3  
5  
N  
 
33 
 
30b  
change            in 
manufacture of a  
chemical/synth etic 
adjuvant  
None  
3-5, 10,11  
Vmin  
30c  
change 
in 
specification 
of 
a 
None 
chemical/synthetic 
adjuvant (including 
tests 
and/or 
the 
analytical 
procedures)  
None  
7-11  
Vmin  
1,3 
7-9 
Vmin 
 
31  
Change involving a biological adjuvant: 
31a  
change in supplier 
of a  
biological adjuvant  
None  
1-7, 10-13  
Vmaj  
31b  
change 
in 
manufacture of a 
biological adjuvant  
None  
1-7, 10-12  
Vmaj  
4  
1-7, 10-12  
Vmin  
31c  
change            in 
specification 
of 
a 
biological adjuvant  
(Including 
tests 
and/or the  
analytical 
procedures)  
None  
6-10  
Vmin  
1,3  
7- 8  
Vmin  
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1) The specification of the adjuvant is equal to or narrower than the approved limits (that is, 
narrowing of acceptance criterion).  
2) The adjuvant is an aluminum salt.  
3) The change in specification consists of the addition of a new test or of a minor change to 
an analytical procedure  
4) There is no change in the manufacturer and/or supplier of the adjuvant.   
 
Documentation required  
1) Information assessing the risk with respect to potential contamination with adventitious 
agents (for example, impact on the viral clearance studies, BSE/TSE risk).   
2) Information on the quality and controls of the materials (for example, raw materials, 
starting materials) used in the manufacture of the proposed adjuvant.   
3) Flow diagram of the proposed manufacturing process(es), a brief narrative description of 
the proposed manufacturing process(es), and information on the controls performed at 
critical steps of the manufacturing process and on intermediates of the proposed adjuvant.  
4) Process validation study reports (for example, for manufacture of the adjuvant) unless 
otherwise justified.   
5) Description of the general properties, including stability, characteristic features and 
characterization data of the adjuvant, as appropriate.  
6) Comparability of the pre- and post-change adjuvant with respect to physicochemical 
properties, biological activity, purity, impurities and contaminants, as appropriate. 
Nonclinical and/or clinical bridging studies may occasionally be required when quality data 
 
34 
 
are insufficient to establish comparability. The extent and nature of nonclinical and clinical 
studies should be determined on a case-by case basis, taking into consideration the 
quality-comparability findings, the nature and level of knowledge of the adjuvant, existing 
relevant nonclinical and clinical data, and aspects of vaccine use  
7) Updated copy of the proposed specification for the adjuvant (and updated analytical 
procedures if applicable).  
8) Copies or summaries of analytical procedures, if new analytical procedures are used.  
9) Validation study reports, if new analytical procedures are used. 
10) Description of the batches and summary of results as quantitative data, in a comparative 
tabular format, for at least three (3) consecutive commercial-scale batches of the final 
product with the pre-change (approved) and post-change (proposed) adjuvant, as 
applicable. Comparative test results for the approved adjuvant do not need to be generated 
concurrently; relevant historical testing results are acceptable 
11) Comparative pre- and post-change test results for the manufacturer’s characterized key 
stability-indicating attributes for at least three (3) commercial-scale final product batches 
produced with the proposed changes under real-time/real-temperature testing conditions. 
Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical results for lots on the stability programme are acceptable. The data should cover 
a minimum of 3 months testing unless otherwise justified. Additionally, the manufacturer 
should commit to undertake real-time stability studies to support the full shelf-life/hold-
time of the final product under its normal storage conditions and to report to the NMRA 
any failures in these ongoing long-term stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of 
smaller-scale batches, the use of fewer than 3 batches and/or use of forced degradation or 
accelerated temperature conditions for stability testing may be acceptable where justified 
and agreed by the NMRA 
12)  Supporting nonclinical and clinical data, if applicable 
13)  Evidence that the facility is GMP compliant 
 
Description and composition of the final product: change to a diluent  
Note: Changes to diluents containing adjuvants and/or antigens are 
considered final products and as such the corresponding changes to the final 
product (not diluent) should be applied. 
  
Description of change  
Conditions to be 
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
32 
Change to the diluent, involving:  
  
32a 
change 
in 
manufacturing 
process 
None 
1-5 
Vmin 
1,3 
1-4 
N 
32b 
replacement of or 
addition 
to 
the 
source of a diluent  
None 
1-5 
Vmin 
1-3 
1-3 
N 
32c 
change in facility 
used 
to 
manufacture 
a 
diluent 
(same 
company)  
1,2 
1,3,5 
N 
 
35 
 
32d 
addition of a diluent 
filling line  
1,2,4 
1,3,5 
N 
32e 
addition of a diluent 
into an approved 
filling  
line  
1,2 
1,3,5 
N 
32f 
deletion of a diluent None 
None 
N 
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. The diluent is water for injection or a salt solution (including buffered salt solutions)- that 
is, it does not include an ingredient with a functional activity (such as a preservative) and 
there is no change to its composition.  
2. After reconstitution, there is no change in the final product specification outside the 
approved limits.  
3. The proposed diluent is commercially available in the NMRA country/jurisdiction.  
4.  The addition of the diluent filling line is in an approved filling facility.  
Documentation required:  
1. 
Flow diagram (including process and in-process controls) of the proposed 
manufacturing process(es) and a brief narrative description of the proposed 
manufacturing process (es 
2. 
Updated copy of the proposed specification for the diluent. 
3. 
Description of the batches and summary of results as quantitative data, in a 
comparative tabular format, for at least three (3) consecutive commercial-
scale batches of the approved and proposed diluent. Comparative test results 
for the approved diluent do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical testing results are acceptable 
4. 
Updated stability data on the product reconstituted with the new diluent 
5. 
 Evidence that the facility is GMP compliant 
 
3.7.11 Manufacture 
Description of change  
Conditions 
to 
be fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
33  
Change involving a final product manufacturer/ manufacturing facility, such as:  
33a  
replacement or 
addition 
of 
a 
manufacturing 
facility 
for the final product 
(including formulation/  
filling 
and 
primary 
packaging)  
None  
1-7  
Vmaj  
1-5  
1-3, 5-8  
Vmin  
33b  
replacement or addition 
of 
a 
secondary 
packaging 
facility, 
a 
labelling/storage facility 
or a distribution facility  
2,3  
1-3  
N  
 
33c  
deletion 
of 
a 
final 
product manufacturing  
facility  
None  
None  
N  
Conditions to be fulfilled  
 
36 
 
1. The proposed facility is an approved formulation/filling facility (for the same company/MA 
holder).  
2. There is no change in the composition, manufacturing process and final product 
specification.  
3. There is no change in the container/closure system and storage conditions.  
4. The same validated manufacturing process is used.  
5. The newly introduced product is in the same family of product(s) or therapeutic classification 
as the products already approved at the site, and also uses the same filling 
process/equipment. 
Documentation required  
1. Name, address and responsibility of the proposed production facility involved in 
manufacturing and testing.  
2. Evidence that the facility is GMP compliant.  
3. Confirmation that the manufacturing process description of the final product has not 
changed as a result of the submission (other than the change in facility), or revised 
description of the manufacturing process.  
4. Comparative description of the manufacturing process if different from the approved process, 
and information on the controls performed at critical steps of the manufacturing process and 
on the intermediate of the proposed final product.  
5. Process validation study reports. The data should include transport between sites, if relevant. 
6. Description of the batches and summary of results as quantitative data, in a comparative 
tabular format, for at least three (3) consecutive commercial-scale batches of the pre- and 
post-change final product. Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated 
concurrently; relevant historical testing results are acceptable. Bracketing for multiple-
strength products, container sizes and/or fills may be acceptable if scientifically justified.  
7. Comparative pre- and post-change test results for the manufacturer’s characterized key 
stability-indicating attributes for at least three (3) commercial scale final product batches 
produced with the proposed changes under real-time/ real-temperature testing conditions. 
Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical results for lots on the stability programme are acceptable. The data should cover a 
minimum of 3 months testing unless otherwise justified. Additionally, the manufacturer 
should commit to undertake real-time stability studies to support the full shelf-life/hold-time 
of the final product under its normal storage conditions and to report to the NMRA any 
failures in these ongoing long-term stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of 
smaller-scale batches, the use of fewer than 3 batches and/or use of forced degradation or 
accelerated temperature conditions for stability testing may be acceptable where justified and 
agreed by the NMRA.  
8. Rationale for considering the proposed formulation/filling facility as equivalent. 
 
3.7.12      Change in the final product manufacturing process 
Description of change  
Conditions to be  
fulfilled 
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
34 
Change in the final product manufacturing process, such as:  
34a 
scale-up of the 
manufacturing 
process at the 
formulation/filli ng 
stage  
1-4 
1-6  
Vmin  
34b 
addition          or 
replacement of 
equipment (for 
example, 
formulation tank, 
filter housing, filling 
line and head, and 
lyophilizer); see 
change 13 above.  
None 
1-8  
Vmin  
5 
2, 7-9  
N  
 
37 
 
34c 
addition of a new 
scale bracketed by 
the approved scales 
or scale down 
of the 
manufacturing  
process  
1-4 
1,4  
N  
34d 
addition of a new 
step (for example,  
filtration) 
3 
1-6 
Vmin 
 
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. The proposed scale uses similar/comparable equipment to the approved equipment. Note: 
Change in equipment size is not considered as using similar/comparable equipment.  
2. Any changes to the manufacturing process and/or to the in-process controls are only those 
necessitated by the change in batch size (for example, the same formulation, controls and 
SOPs are utilized).  
3. The change should not be a result of recurring events having arisen during manufacture or 
because of stability concerns.  
4. No change in the principle of the sterilization procedures of the final product. 
5. Replacement of equipment with equivalent equipment; the change is considered “like for like” 
(that is, in terms of product contact material, equipment size and operating principles).  
Documentation required  
1. Description of the manufacturing process, if different from the approved process, and 
information on the controls performed at critical steps of the manufacturing process and 
on the intermediate of the proposed final product.  
2. Information on the in-process control testing, as applicable.  
3. Process validation study reports (for example, media fills), as appropriate.  
4. Description of the batches and summary of results as quantitative data, in a comparative 
tabular format, for at least three (3) consecutive commercial-scale batches of the pre- and 
post-change final product. Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated 
concurrently; relevant historical testing results are acceptable. Bracketing for multiple-
strength products, container sizes and/or fills may be acceptable if scientifically justified 
5. Comparative pre- and post-change test results for the manufacturer’s characterized key 
stability-indicating attributes for at least three (3) commercial scale final product batches 
produced with the proposed changes under real-time/ real-temperature testing conditions. 
Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical results for lots on the stability programme are acceptable. The data should cover 
a minimum of 3 months testing unless otherwise justified. Additionally, the manufacturer 
should commit to undertake real-time stability studies to support the full shelf-life/hold-
time of the final product under its normal storage conditions and to report to the NMRA any 
failures in these ongoing long-term stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of 
smaller-scale batches, the use of fewer than 3 batches and/or use of forced degradation or 
accelerated temperature conditions for stability testing may be acceptable where justified 
and agreed by the NMRA.  
6. Information on leachables and extractables, as applicable.  
7. Information on the new equipment and comparison of similarities and differences regarding 
operating principles and specifications between the new and the replaced equipment.  
8. Information demonstrating requalification of the equipment or requalification of the change. 
Rationale for regarding the equipment as similar/comparable, as applicable 
Description of change  
Conditions to 
be fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
35  
Change in the controls (in-process tests and/or acceptance criteria) applied during 
the manufacturing process or on intermediates, such as:  
35a  
narrowing of in process 
limits  
2,3,7 
1,5 
N 
 
38 
 
35b  
addition of new in-
process test and limits  
2,3,8,9 
1-6,8 
N 
35c  
deletion of a non-
significant in process 
test  
2-4 
1,5,7 
N 
35d  
widening of the approved 
in process limits  
None 
1-6, 8,9  
Vmaj 
1-3 
1,5,6,8,9 
Vmin 
35e  
deletion of an in- 
process test which may 
have a significant effect 
on the overall quality of 
the final product  
None 
1,5,6,8 
Vmaj 
35f  
addition or replacement 
of an in-process test as a 
result of a safety or 
quality issue  
None 
1-6,8 
Vmin 
  
36  
Change in in- 
process controls testing 
site  
1-3, 5,6  
10 
N 
 
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. No change in final product specification outside the approved limits.  
2. No change in the impurity profile of the final product outside the approved limits.  
3. The change is not necessitated by recurring events arising during manufacture or because 
of stability concerns.  
4. The test does not concern a critical attribute (for example, content, impurities, any critical 
physical characteristics or microbial purity).  
5. The replaced analytical procedure maintains or tightens precision, accuracy, specificity and 
sensitivity, if applicable.   
6. No change in the in-process control limits outside the approved limits.  
7. The test procedure remains the same, or changes in the test procedure are minor.  
8. Any new test method does not concern a novel non-standard technique or a standard 
technique used in a novel way.  
9. The 
new 
test 
method 
is 
not 
a 
biological/immunological/immunochemical 
or 
physicochemical method or a method using a biological reagent (does not include standard 
pharmacopeial microbiological methods) 
Documentation required  
1. Revised information on the controls performed at critical steps of the manufacturing process 
and on intermediates of the proposed antigen.  
2. Updated final product specification if changed.  
3. Copies or summaries of analytical procedures, if new analytical procedures are used.  
4. Validation study reports, if new analytical procedures are used.  
5. Comparative table or description, where applicable, of current and proposed inprocess 
tests.  
6. Description of the batches and summary of in-process and release testing results as 
quantitative data, in a comparative tabular format, for at least three (3 consecutive 
commercial-scale batches of the pre- and post-change final product (certificates of analysis 
should be provided). Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated 
concurrently; relevant historical testing results are acceptable 
7. Justification/risk assessment showing that the attribute is nonsignificant.  
8. Justification for the new in-process test and limits.  
9. Comparative pre- and post-change test results for the manufacturer’s characterized key 
stability-indicating attributes for at least three (3) commercial scale final product batches 
produced with the proposed changes under real-time/ real-temperature testing conditions. 
 
39 
 
Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical results for lots on the stability programme are acceptable. The data should cover 
a minimum of 3 months testing unless otherwise justified. Additionally, the manufacturer 
should commit to undertake real-time stability studies to support the full shelf-life/hold-
time of the final product under its normal storage conditions and to report to the NMRA any 
failures in these ongoing long-term stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of 
smaller-scale batches, the use of fewer than 3 batches and/or use of forced degradation or 
accelerated temperature conditions for stability testing may be acceptable where justified 
and agreed by the NMRA.  
10. Evidence that the new company/facility is GMP compliant 
  
Description of change  
Conditions to be 
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
37 
Change in the specification used to release the excipient, involving: Note: This 
change excludes adjuvants. See adjuvant-specific changes above for details (changes 
30 and 31).  
37a  
deletion of a test  
5,8 
1,3 
N 
37b  
addition of a test  
4 
1-3 
N 
 
37c  
replacement of an 
analytical procedure  
1-3 
1,2 
N 
37d  
minor changes to an 
approved analytical 
procedure  
None 
1,2 
N 
37e  
change from an in-
house analytical  
procedure to a 
recognized 
compendial 
analytical procedure  
None 
1,2 
N 
37f 
widening of an 
acceptance criterion  
None 
1,3 
Vmin 
37g  
narrowing of an 
acceptance criterion  
3,4,6,7 
1 
N 
Conditions to be fulfilled  
Results of method validation demonstrate that the proposed analytical procedure is at least 
equivalent to the approved analytical procedure.  
The replaced analytical procedure maintains or tightens precision, accuracy, specificity and 
sensitivity.  
The change is within the range of approved acceptance criteria or has been made to reflect the 
new pharmacopeial monograph specification for the excipient.  
Acceptance criteria for residual solvents are within recognized or approved acceptance limits 
(for example, within ICH limits for a Class 3 residual solvent or pharmacopeial requirements).  
The deleted test has been demonstrated to be redundant compared to the remaining tests or 
is no longer a pharmacopeial requirement.  
The analytical procedure remains the same, or changes in the test procedure are minor.  
The change does not result from unexpected events arising during manufacture (for example, 
new unqualified impurity or change in total impurity limits).  
An alternative test analytical procedure is already authorized for the specification 
attribute/test and this procedure has not been added through a minor change submission. 
Documentation required  
 
40 
 
Updated excipient specification.  
Where an in-house analytical procedure is used and a recognized compendial standard is 
claimed, results of an equivalency study between the in-house and compendial methods.  
Justification of the proposed excipient specification (for example, demonstration of the 
suitability of the monograph to control the excipient and potential impact on the performance 
of the final product).  
Description of change  
Conditions to  
be fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
38 
Change in the 
source of an 
excipient from a 
vegetable or 
synthetic source to a 
human or animal 
source that may 
pose a  
TSE or viral risk  
None 
2-7  
Vmaj  
 
39 
Change in the source 
of an excipient from a 
TSE risk (for example, 
animal) source to a 
vegetable or  
synthetic source  
None 
1,3,5,6  
Vmin  
40 
Replacement in the 
source of an excipient 
from a TSE risk 
source to a different 
TSE risk source  
5,6 
2-7  
N  
41 
  
Change            in 
manufacture of a 
biological excipient   
Note:    This change 
excludes biological  
adjuvants; see 
adjuvant-specific 
changes above for 
details  
(Changes 30 and  
31).  
None 
2-7  
Vmaj  
2 
2-7  
Vmin  
1,2 
2-7  
N  
42 
Change in supplier 
for a plasma derived 
excipient (for 
example,  
human         serum  
albumin) 
None 
3-8  
Vmaj  
3,4 
5,6,9 
Vmin 
 
43 
Change                 in  
None 
2,3,5-7  
Vmin  
 
41 
 
supplier 
for 
an 
excipient 
of 
nonbiological origin or 
of 
biological 
origin 
(excluding 
plasma-
derived 
excipient) 
Note: 
This 
change 
excludes 
adjuvants; 
see adjuvant-specific 
changes 
above 
for 
details  
(Changes 30 and  
31)  
1,5,6 
  
3  
  
N  
  
44 
Change in excipient 
testing site  
1 
10  
N  
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. No change in the specification of the excipient or final product outside the approved 
limits.  
2. The change does not concern a human plasma-derived excipient.  
3. The human plasma-derived excipient from the new supplier is an approve medicinal 
product and no manufacturing changes were made by the supplier of the new 
excipient since its last approval in the country/jurisdiction of the NMRA.  
4. The excipient does not influence the structure/conformation of the active ingredient.  
5. The TSE risk source is covered by a TSE certificate of suitability and is of the same or 
lower TSE risk as the previously approved material.  
6. Any new excipient does not require the assessment of viral safety data. 
 
1. Documentation required  
2. Declaration from the manufacturer of the excipient that the excipient is entirely of 
vegetable or synthetic origin.  
3. Details of the source of the excipient (for example, animal species, country of origin) 
and the steps undertaken during processing to minimize the risk of TSE exposure   
4. Information demonstrating comparability in terms of physicochemical properties, and 
the impurity profile of the proposed excipient compared to the approved excipient.  
5. Information on the manufacturing process and on the controls performed at critical 
steps of the manufacturing process, and on the intermediate of the proposed 
excipient.  
6. Description of the batches and summary of results as quantitative data, in a 
comparative tabular format, for at least three (3) commercial-scale batches of the 
proposed excipient.  
7. Comparative pre- and post-change test results for the manufacturer’s characterized 
key stability-indicating attributes for at least three (3) commercial scale final product 
batches produced with the proposed changes under real-time/ real-temperature 
testing conditions. Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated 
concurrently; relevant historical results for lots on the stability programme are 
acceptable. The data should cover a minimum of 3 months testing unless otherwise 
justified. Additionally, the manufacturer should commit to undertake real-time 
stability studies to support the full shelf-life/hold-time of the final product under its 
normal storage conditions and to report to the NMRA any failures in these ongoing 
long-term stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of smaller-scale batches, the 
use of fewer than 3 batches and/or use of forced degradation or accelerated 
temperature conditions for stability testing may be acceptable where justified and 
agreed by the NMRA.  
8. Information assessing the risk with respect to potential contamination with 
adventitious agents (for example, impact on the viral clearance studies, or BSE/TSE 
risk including viral safety documentation where necessary.  
9. Complete manufacturing and clinical safety data to support the use of the proposed 
human plasma-derived excipient.  
 
42 
 
10. Letter from the supplier certifying that no changes were made to the plasma-derived 
excipient compared to the currently approved corresponding medicinal product.  
11. Evidence that the new company/facility is GMP compliant 
3.7.13 Control of the final product 
Description of change  
Conditions 
to be  
fulfilled 
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
45 
Change affecting the QC testing of the final product (release and stability), involving:  
 Note: Transfer of testing to a different facility within a GMP-approved site is not 
considered to be a reportable change but is treated as a minor GMP change and 
reviewed during inspections.  
45a  
transfer of the QC testing 
activities for a non 
pharmacopoeial assay (in-
house) to a new company or 
to a different site within the 
same company 
None 
1,2  
Vmin  
45b  
transfer of the QC testing 
activities for a 
pharmacopoeial assay to a 
new company  
1 
1,2  
N  
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. The transferred QC test is not a potency assay or a bioassay.  
Documentation required  
1.    Information demonstrating technology transfer qualification.  
2.    Evidence that the new company/facility is GMP compliant.  
3.7.14 Change in the specification used to release the final product 
Description of change  
Conditions 
to 
be  
fulfilled 
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
46 
Change in the specification used to release the final product, involving:  
46a  
or 
products 
or 
components subject to 
terminal sterilization by 
heat (for example, diluent 
for 
reconstitution 
of 
lyophilized 
vaccines), 
replacing the sterility test 
with process parametric 
release  
None 
1,2,6,8,10 
Vmaj 
 
46b  
deletion of a test  
None 
2,9,10 
Vmin 
46c  
addition of a test  
1,2,9 
2-4,8 
N 
 
43 
 
46d  
change 
in 
animal 
species/strains for a test 
(for example, new  
species/strains, 
animals of different ages, 
and/or 
new 
supplier 
where genotype of the 
animal 
cannot 
be 
confirmed)  
None 
5,11 
Vmin 
46e  
replacement 
of 
an 
analytical procedure  
None 
2-4,7,8 
Vmin 
46f 
minor changes to an 
approved  
analytical procedure  
3-6 
3,8 
N 
46g  
change from an in-house 
analytical  
procedure to a recognized 
compendial 
analytical 
procedure 
3,6 
2-4 
N 
 
46h  
widening 
of 
an 
acceptance criterion  
None 
2,8,10 
Vmin 
46i 
narrowing 
of 
an 
acceptance criterion  
7-10 
2 
N 
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. 
No change in the limits/acceptance criteria outside the approved limits for the approved 
assays.  
2. 
The additional test is not intended to monitor new impurity species.  
3. 
No change in the acceptance criteria outside the approved limits.  
4. 
The method of analysis is the same (for example, a change in column length or 
temperature, but not a different type of column or method) and no new impurities are 
detected.  
5. 
The modified analytical procedure maintains or tightens precision, accuracy, specificity 
and sensitivity.  
6. 
The change does not concern potency testing.  
7. 
The change is within the range of approved acceptance criteria.  
8. 
Acceptance criteria for residual solvents are within recognized or approve acceptance 
limits (for example, within ICH limits for a Class 3 residual solvent, or pharmacopeial 
requirements)  
9. 
The change does not result from unexpected events arising during manufacture (for 
example, new unqualified impurity, or impurity content outside of the approved limits). 
10. The analytical procedure remains the same, or changes to the analytical procedure are 
minor. 
Documentation required  
1. 
Process validation study reports on the proposed final product.  
2. 
Updated copy of the proposed final product specification.  
3. 
Copies or summaries of analytical procedures, if new analytical procedures are used 
4. 
Validation study reports, if new analytical procedures are used 
5. 
Data demonstrating that the change in animals gives results comparable to those 
obtained using the approved animals 
6. 
Description of the batches and summary of results as quantitative data for a sufficient 
number of batches to support the process parametric release 
7. 
Description of the batches and summary of results as quantitative data, in a comparative 
tabular format, for at least three (3) commercial-scale batches of the final product 
8. 
Justification for the change to the analytical procedure (for example, demonstration of 
the suitability of the analytical procedure in monitoring the final product, including the 
 
44 
 
degradation products) or for the change to the specification (for example, demonstration 
of the suitability of the revised acceptance criterion in controlling the final product) 
9. 
Justification for the change to the analytical procedure (for example, demonstration of 
the suitability of the analytical procedure in monitoring the final product, including the 
degradation products) or for the change to the specification (for example, demonstration 
of the suitability of the revised acceptance criterion in controlling the final product) 
10. 
Declaration/evidence that consistency of quality and of the production process is 
maintained 
11. 
Copies of relevant certificates of fitness for use 
3.7.15 Reference standards or materials 
Description of change  
Conditions to be  
fulfilled 
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
  47 
Qualification of a reference 
standard against a new 
primary international 
standard 
None 
1,2  
Vmin  
 48 
Change of the reference 
standard from in-house 
(no relationship with 
international standard) to 
pharmacopeial or 
international standard 
None 
1,2 
Vmin 
  
  49 
Qualification of a new lot of 
reference standard against 
the 
approved 
reference 
standard 
(including 
qualification of a new lot of 
a 
secondary 
reference 
standard 
against 
the 
approved 
primary 
standard)  
1 
2  
N  
 50 
Change to the reference 
standard 
qualification 
protocol  
None 
3,4  
Vmin  
  51 
Extension of the shelf-life 
of the reference standard  
2 
5  
N  
 Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. The qualification of a new standard is carried out in accordance with an approved 
protocol.  
2. The extension of the shelf-life of the reference standard is carried out in accordance with 
an approved protocol.  
Documentation required  
1. Revised product labelling to reflect the change in reference standard (as applicable).  
2. Qualification data of the proposed reference standards or materials (for example, source, 
characterization and certificate of analysis).  
3. Justification of the change to the reference standard qualification protocol.  
4. Updated reference standard qualification protocol.  
5. Summary of stability testing and results or retest data to support the extension   of the 
reference standard shelf-life. 
3.7.16 Container closure system 
 
45 
 
Description of change  
Conditions to be  
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
52 
Modification 
of 
a 
primary 
container 
closure 
system 
(for 
example, new coating, 
adhesive, stopper or 
type of glass)  
Note: The addition of a 
new container closure 
system (for example, 
addition of a pre-filled 
syringe 
where 
the 
currently 
approved 
presentation is only a 
vial) is considered a 
change 
in 
presentation; 
see 
change 29.c above.  
None  
1-7 
Vmin 
1-3 
  
3 
N 
  
53 
Change 
from 
a 
reusable container to a 
disposable 
container 
with no changes in 
product 
contact 
material        (for 
example,  
change from reusable 
pen to disposable pen) 
None  
1,3,6 
Vmin 
54 
Deletion of a container 
closure system  
Note: 
The 
NMRA 
should be notified of 
the 
deletion 
of 
a 
container 
closure 
system, and product 
labelling 
information 
should be updated, as 
appropriate.  
None 
1 
N 
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. 
No change in the type of container closure or materials of construction.  
2. 
No change in the shape or dimensions of the container closure. 
3. 
The change is made only to improve the quality of the container and does not modify the 
product contact material (for example, increased thickness of the glass vial without 
changing interior dimensions).  
Documentation required  
1. Revised product labelling information, as appropriate  
2. For sterile products, process validation study reports, or providing equivalency rationale. 
For a secondary functional container closure system, validation testing report.  
3. Information on the proposed container closure system, as appropriate (for example, 
description, materials of construction of primary/secondary packaging components, 
performance specification).  
4. Results demonstrating protection against leakage, no leaching of undesirable substance 
and compatibility with the product, and results from the toxicity and biological reactivity 
tests.  
 
46 
 
5. Summary of results as quantitative data, in a comparative tabular format, for at least three 
(3) consecutive commercial-scale batches of the pre- and post-change final product. 
Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical testing results are acceptable. Bracketing for multiple-strength products, 
container sizes and/or fills may be acceptable if scientifically justified.  
6. Comparative pre- and post-change test results for the manufacturer’s characterized key 
stability-indicating attributes for at least three (3) commercial scale final product batches 
produced with the proposed changes under real-time/ real-temperature testing conditions. 
Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical results for lots on the stability programme are acceptable. The data should cover 
a minimum of 3 months testing unless otherwise justified. Additionally, the manufacturer 
should commit to undertake real-time stability studies to support the full shelf-life/hold-
time of the final product under its normal storage conditions and to report to the NMRA 
any failures in these ongoing long-term stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of 
smaller-scale batches, the use of fewer than 3 batches and/or use of forced degradation 
or accelerated temperature conditions for stability testing may be acceptable where 
justified and agreed by the NMRA 
7. Information demonstrating the suitability of the proposed container/closure system with 
respect to its relevant properties (for example, results from last media fills; results of 
transportation and/or interaction studies demonstrating the preservation of protein 
integrity and maintenance of sterility for sterile products; results of maintenance of sterility 
in multidose containers and results of user testing 
 
Description of change  
Conditions to be 
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
55  
Change in the supplier for a primary container closure component, involving:  
55a  
replacement or 
addition of a 
supplier  
Note: A change in 
container closure 
system involving 
new materials of  
construction, 
shape                    
or 
dimensions would 
require supporting 
data such as is 
shown for change 52 
above.  
1,2  
4,5  
N  
55b 
deletion of a 
supplier 
None 
None 
N 
 
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. No change in the type of container closure, materials of construction, shape and 
dimensions, or in the sterilization process for a sterile container closure component.  
2. No change in the specification of the container closure component outside the approved 
limits. 
 
47 
 
Documentation required  
1. Information on the supplier and make of the proposed container closure system (for 
example, certificate of analysis, description, materials of construction of primary packaging 
components, specification).  
2. Data demonstrating the suitability of the container closure system (for example, 
extractable/leachable testing).   
3. Comparative pre- and post-change test results for the manufacturer’s characterized key 
stability-indicating attributes for at least three (3) commercial scale final product batches 
produced with the proposed changes under real-time/ real-temperature testing conditions. 
Comparative pre-change test results do not need to be generated concurrently; relevant 
historical results for lots on the stability programme are acceptable. The data should cover 
a minimum of 3 months testing unless otherwise justified. Additionally, the manufacturer 
should commit to undertake real-time stability studies to support the full shelf-life/hold-
time of the final product under its normal storage conditions and to report to the NMRA 
any failures in these ongoing long-term stability studies. Matrixing, bracketing, the use of 
smaller-scale batches, the use of fewer than 3 batches and/or use of forced degradation or 
accelerated temperature conditions for stability testing may be acceptable where justified 
and agreed by the NMRA.  
4. Letter from the MA holder certifying that there are no changes to the container closure 
system 
5. Certificate of analysis for the container provided by the new supplier and comparison with 
the certificate of analysis for the approved container 
 
Description of change  
Conditions to be 
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
56  
Change in the specification used to release a primary container closure 
component or functional secondary container closure component, involving:  
56a  
deletion of a test  
1,2 
1,2 
N 
56b  
addition of a  
test  
3 
1,2 
N 
56c  
replacement of an 
analytical procedure  
6,7 
1-3 
N 
56d  
minor changes to an 
analytical procedure  
4-7 
1-3 
N 
56e  
widening 
of 
an 
acceptance criterion  
None 
1,2 
Vmin 
56f  
narrowing 
of 
an 
acceptance criterion  
8 
1 
N 
Conditions to be fulfilled  
 
48 
 
1. The deleted test has been demonstrated to be redundant compared to the remaining 
tests or is no longer a pharmacopoeia requirement 
2. The change to the specification does not affect the functional properties of the container 
closure component nor result in a potential impact on the performance of the final 
product.  
3. The change is not necessitated by recurring events arising during manufacture or 
because of stability concerns.  
4. There is no change in the acceptance criteria outside the approved limits.  
5. The new analytical procedure is of the same type.  
6. Results of method validation demonstrate that the new or modified analytical 
procedure is at least equivalent to the approved analytical procedure.  
7. The new or modified analytical procedure maintains or tightens precision, accuracy, 
specificity and sensitivity.  
8. The change is within the range of approved acceptance criteria or has been made to 
reflect new pharmacopoeia monograph specifications for the container closure 
component  
Documentation required  
1. 
Updated copy of the proposed specification for the primary or functional secondary 
container closure component.  
2. 
Rationale for the change in specification for a primary container closure component.  
3. 
 Description of the analytical procedure and, if applicable, validation data.  
  
 3.7.17 Stability of the Final product 
Description of change  
Conditions to  
be fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
57 
Change in the shelf-life of the final product, involving:  
57a 
extension 
(includes 
extension of shelf- life 
of the final product as 
packaged for sale, and 
hold-time 
after 
opening 
and 
after 
dilution or  
reconstitution) 
None 
  
1-5 
Vmin 
57b 
reduction 
(includes 
reduction as packaged 
for sale, after opening, 
and after dilution or 
reconstitution) 
None 
1-5 
Vmin 
  
Conditions to be fulfilled  
None  
Documentation required  
1. 
Updated product labelling information, as appropriate.  
2. 
Proposed storage conditions and shelf-life, as appropriate.  
4. 
Updated post-approval stability protocol.  
5. 
Justification of the change to the post-approval stability protocol or stability 
commitment.  
6. 
Results of stability testing under real-time/real-temperature conditions covering the 
proposed shelf-life generated on at least three (3) commercial-scale batches.  
Description of change  
Conditions to be 
fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
 
49 
 
58 
Change in the post-approval stability protocol of the final product, involving:  
58a  
major change to the 
post-approval 
stability protocol or 
stability 
commitment, such as 
deletion of a test, 
replacement 
of 
an 
analytical procedure 
or change in storage 
temperature  
None 
1-6 
Vmaj 
 
58b  
addition 
of 
time 
point(s) into the post-
approval 
stability 
protocol  
None 
4,6 
N 
58c  
addition 
of 
test(s) 
into 
the 
post 
approval 
stability 
protocol  
1 
4,6 
N 
58d  
deletion 
of 
time 
point(s) 
from 
the 
post-approval 
stability 
protocol 
beyond the approved 
shelf-life  
None 
4,6 
N 
58e  
deletion 
of 
time 
point(s) 
from 
the 
post-approval 
stability 
protocol 
within the  
approved shelf-life  
2 
4,6 
N 
58f  
replacement of the 
sterility testing None 
by 
the 
container/closure 
system 
integrity 
testing 
None 
1,2,4,6 
Vmin 
3 
4,6 
N 
Conditions to be fulfilled  
1. The addition of the test(s) is not due to stability concerns or to the identification of new 
impurities. 
2. The approved shelf-life of the final product is at least 24 months.  
3.  The method used to demonstrate the integrity of the container/closure system has already 
been approved as part of a previous application.  
Documentation required  
 
50 
 
1. Copies or summaries of analytical procedures, if new analytical procedures are used.  
2. Validation study reports, if new analytical procedures are used.  
3. Proposed storage conditions and or shelf-life, as appropriate.  
4. Updated post-approval stability protocol and stability commitment.  
5. Copies or summaries of analytical procedures, if new analytical procedures are used.  
6. Validation study reports, if new analytical procedures are used.  
7. Proposed storage conditions and or shelf-life, as appropriate.  
8. Updated post-approval stability protocol and stability commitment.  
9. If applicable, stability testing results to support the change to the post-approval stability 
protocol or stability commitment (for example, data showing greater reliability of the 
alternative test).  
10. Justification of the change to the post-approval stability protocol or stability commitment 
Description of change  
Conditions to  
be fulfilled  
Documentation 
required  
Reporting type  
59 
Change in the labelled storage conditions for the final product or the diluted or 
reconstituted vaccine, involving:  
59a 
addition or change 
of 
storage 
condition(s) 
for 
the final product, 
or for diluted or 
reconstituted 
vaccine 
(for 
example, widening 
or narrowing of a 
temperature 
criterion, 
or 
addition 
of 
or 
change 
to 
controlled 
temperature chain 
conditions)  
None 
1-4,6  
Vmin  
 
59b  
addition 
of 
a 
cautionary 
statement 
(for 
example, “Do not 
freeze  
None 
1,2,4,5  
Vmin  
59c  
deletion 
of 
a 
cautionary 
statement 
(for 
example, “Do not 
freeze”)  
None 
1,2,4,6  
Vmin  
Conditions to be fulfilled  
None  
Documentation required 
1. Revised product labelling information, as applicable.  
2. Proposed storage conditions and shelf-life.  
3. Updated post-approval stability protocol and stability commitment.  
4. Justification of the change in the labelled storage conditions/cautionary statement.  
 
51 
 
5. Results of stability testing under appropriate stability conditions covering the proposed 
shelf-life, generated on one (1) commercial scale batch unless otherwise justified 
6. Results of stability testing under appropriate conditions covering the proposed shelf-life, 
generated on at least three (3) commercial-scale batches unless otherwise justified. 
 
 
 
 
52 
 
4.0 
REFERENCES  
1. Guidelines on procedures and data requirements for changes to 
approved vaccines. In: WHO Expert Committee on Specifications for 
Pharmaceutical Preparations. Forty-seventh report. Geneva, World 
Health Organization, 2015, Annex 4 (WHO Technical Report Series, 
No. 993).  
2. EAC Guidelines for Variation of Registered medicinal products  
 
 
 
 
53 
 
5.0 
REVISION HISTORY 
Revision 
No:  
Date   
Author/Reviewer   
Section(s) 
revised   
Description of change  
1.      
19/07/2022 
  
Anthony Kemboi 
Second Page 
  
Added 
section 
on 
Recommended citations. 
Included the PPB Website 
Removed section on No 
part of this publication 
may 
be 
reproduced, 
stored 
in 
a 
retrieval 
system, or transmitted in 
any form, or by any 
means, 
electronic, 
mechanical, 
photocopying, recording, 
scanning, or otherwise, 
without 
the 
prior 
permission 
in 
writing 
from the pharmacy and 
Poisons Board. 
Appendix 1 
Addition of number vii, 
Viii and ix) of Appendix  
1(safety and Efficacy) 
Appendix 2 
Addition of number v and 
vi 
2.  
30/1/2024 
Dr.Jonathan 
Meriakol 
 
Dr.Vallarie 
Muguni 
 
Dr.Kireran Gitobu 
 
Dr.Purity Mutinda 
 
Dr.Ann Tibin 
2.1 
Revised 
to 
direct 
applicants to the Service 
Charter 
for 
detailed 
information 
on 
the 
timelines for processing 
variation applications 
3.1 and 3.4 
Updated 
the 
variation 
guidelines to clarify the 
categories of variations: 
those requiring approval 
before 
implementation, 
those 
requiring 
notification to the PPB 
before 
or 
during 
implementation, 
and 
those that do not require 
any notification to the 
PPB 
3.4.2 
Clear distinction between 
administrative 
product 
labeling 
information 
 
54 
 
changes 
and 
product 
labeling 
information 
change that has impact 
on clinical use 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.0 
APPENDICES 
Appendix I: Safety and efficacy changes 
Examples of safety and efficacy changes that require data from clinical 
studies, post-marketing observational studies, or extensive post-marketing 
safety data include:  
 
i. 
Change to the indication:  
a. addition of a new indication (such as prevention of a 
previously unspecified disease);  
b. modification of an approved indication (such as the 
expansion of the age of use or restriction of an indication 
based on clinical studies demonstrating a lack of efficacy).  
ii. 
Change in the recommended dose and/or dosing schedule:  
a. addition of a new vaccination regimen (such as the 
addition of accelerated vaccination regiments);  
b. addition or modification of the existing vaccination 
regimen (such as the addition of a booster dose or 
modification of the recommended time interval for booster 
vaccinations).  
iii. 
Change to add information on shedding and transmission  
iv. 
Change to the use in specific at-risk groups (such as the addition of 
information on use in pregnant women or immunocompromised 
patients).  
v. 
Change to add information on co-administration with other vaccines 
or medicines.  
vi. 
Change in existing risk-management measures:  
a. deletion of an existing route of administration, dosage 
form, and/or strength due to safety reasons;  
b. deletion of a contraindication (such as use in pregnant 
women).   
vii. 
Any other addition or expansion of a safety claim, indication, or 
efficacy claim, whether explicit or implicit  
viii. 
Identification or characterization of any adverse events   
 
 
ix. 
The identification of subgroups, or conditions of use, for which the 
benefit to the risk profile of the vaccine has the potential to be 
favorable;  
 For the above changes, the applicant should submit to PPB the below stated 
• Detailed description and rationale of the proposed change;  
• Summary of the methods used and studies performed to evaluate 
the effect of the change on the vaccine’s safety or efficacy;  
• Amended 
product 
labelling 
information; 
Clinical studies (protocol, statistical analysis plan and clinical study 
report); Clinical assay methods (including SOPs) and validations; 
The pharmacovigilance plan.  
Safety and efficacy changes require prior approval by PPB.  
Product labelling information changes  
Examples of product labelling information changes associated with changes 
that have an impact on clinical use include: 
i. The addition of an adverse event identified as consistent with a 
causal association with immunization with the vaccine concerned. 
ii. A change in the frequency of occurrence of an adverse reaction.  
iii. Addition of a contraindication or warning (such as identification of a 
specific subpopulation as being at greater risk, such as individuals 
with a concomitant condition or taking concomitant medicines, or a 
specific age group). These changes may include the provision of 
recommended risk-management actions (for example, required 
testing before vaccination, specific monitoring following vaccination, 
and ensuring patient awareness of certain risks).  
iv. Strengthening or clarification of product labelling information text 
relating to contraindications, warnings, precautions, and adverse 
reactions.  
v. Revisions 
to 
the 
instructions 
for 
use, 
including 
dosage, 
administration, and preparation for administration to optimize the 
safe use of the vaccine.  
Product labeling information changes that has an impact on clinical use 
require prior approval by PPB.  
 
 
Examples of Administrative product labelling information changes which do 
require reporting to PPB and approval prior to implementation by the MA 
holder include: 
• Change in the name of the MA holder and/or manufacturer (such as 
change of name due to a merger). 
• Change in the trade name of the vaccine. 
Examples of Administrative product labelling information changes which do 
not require approval by PPB A prior to implementation include: 
• Minor changes to the layout of the product labelling information 
items, or revision of typographical errors without changing the 
content of the label. 
• Update of the MA holder’s contact information (for example, customer 
service number or web site addresses) or the distributor’s name. 
• Update of the existing information for referenced literature without 
adding or removing references. 
• Changes made to comply with an official compendium (such as 
change of common name). 
• Minor changes to the text to add clarity in relation to maintaining 
consistency with common label phrase standards (for example, 
a change from “not recommended for children” to “not for use 
in children”). 
These administrative product labelling information changes (that is, changes 
that have been implemented since the time of the last approved product 
labelling information not subject to prior approval) should be included when 
submitting subsequent supplements for safety and efficacy changes, or for 
product labelling information changes. 
 
 
 
 
Appendix II: Examples of changes that make a new application 
necessary 
These include the following:  
i. Change to add new route of administration  
ii. Change to add a new dosage form (such as replacement of a suspension 
for injection with a lyophilized cake  
iii. Change to add a new strength  
iv. Change to add a new delivery device (such as adding a needle-free jet 
injector)  
v. New cell substrates that are unrelated to the MCB or pre-MCB material 
vi. Change in the type/structure of a chemical adjuvant, in the type of a 
biological adjuvant, or a component of a biological adjuvant 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I: Application for Submission of Variation  
 
 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
 
 
PHARMACY AND POISONS BOARD 
 
 
 
 
 
APPLICATION FOR VARIATION TO A REGISTERED 
PHARMACEUTICAL 
 
(Please complete each section of this application form electronically as a word 
document AND   as a scanned signed PDF file.  To be submitted as one 
original hard-copy and one electronic copy (in   Ms –Word and PDF version on 
a CD-Rom) 
 
 
CONFIDENTIAL 
(Effective from January 2022) 
 
Application Number 
(VAR No.) 
 
Date of submission of 
the dossier  
 
Name of the 1st 
Evaluator 
 
Signature 
Name of the 2nd 
Evaluator 
 
Signature 
Date of 1st evaluation 
 
Date of 2nd Evaluation  
Number of files 
received  
 
 
 
CONCLUSION OF THE ASSESSMENT 
APPROVED (no outstanding issues) 
QUERY RAISED (Indicate the sections 
where query is raised) 
REJECTED (indicate the sec(s) that led 
to the rejection) 
(Please delete which does not apply) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Applicant details 
 
Information required (Particulars 
of the applicant) 
Information to be filled by the 
Applicant 
a) Name and Business Address of 
the Marketing Authorization 
Holder (MAH) 
Company) Name:  
Address:  
Country:  
Telephone:  
Telefax:  
E-Mail:  
b) Name and complete address of the 
Local Technical Representative of 
Manufacturer (if Applicable or 
different from section (a) above) 
Company name:      
Address:  
PPB File Number:  
Telephone:  
Telefax:  
E-Mail:  
 
1.1 
Product Details  
 
 
 
Information required (Product 
Details) 
Information to be filled by the 
Applicant 
a) Trade Name of the product, 
Product registration number,  
Product retention number, Active 
pharmaceutical ingredient (s) etc 
Note: Product retention number is 
not applicable(N/A) for a product 
registered the same year during 
which the variation is applied  
Trade Name of the product:  
Product registration number: 
Product retention number (N/A for 
products registered within the same 
year:  
Active pharmaceutical ingredient 
((s) (API) :  
Strength of the API(s): 
Dosage form: e.g. Tablet 
Registered Shelf Life: 
Registered Batch Size(s):  
Registered Pack Size(s) 
  
 
1.1 Variation type: (tick all applicable options) 
 
                    Notification                                       
 
 
   
                    Minor variation    
 
                     Major variation  
 
1.2 Grouping of variations 
 
       Single variation 
 
                              Grouped variations 
 
 
 
 
2.  Variation title and Summary of the proposed changes 
 
2.1. Variation title(s) and Variation type Number (s): 
Indicate the variation title e.g. Change of Batch size of the finished 
pharmaceutical product. For multiple variations (grouped variations), indicate 
all the titles of the variation as per PPB Variation guideline. 
 
2.2  Summarry of the proposed changes 
 
Provide a summary of the proposed changes as indicated in the table below. 
For Multiple variations(Grouped Variations), reproduce this section 
 
Current  Details  
 Proposed  Details (change) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 3  Reason for Change(s)  
 
 Provide reason(s) and justification for the requested changes  
 
3.  Documentation required to be provided 
 
3.1 Mandatory documents applicable for every variation (tick all 
applicable options) 
 
The following documentation   SHALL be provided   for each variation 
requested 
Name of the Document to be 
Submitted   
 Applicant to tick all applicable 
options, if the document is 
provided 
 Copy of Pharmacy and Poisons 
Board Initial registration 
certificate of the product  
 
 
 
Copy of Pharmacy and Poisons   
Retention certificate of the 
product 
 
Copy of cGMP from PPB for the 
Manufacturing site/ Evidence for 
payment for GMP 
 
 
 
 
3.2 Mandatory specific documents required to fulfil the condition set 
for a specific variation  
 
 Provide in the table below the supportive documentation   as described 
(listed) in the Pharmacy and Poisons Board variation Guideline.  For multiple 
variations (grouped variations), reproduce this table  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of the Document(s) to be 
Submitted   
 Applicant to tick all applicable 
options, if the document is 
provided 
  
Refer to Pharmacy and Poisons 
Board Variation Guideline to 
indicate the specific document 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Declaration 
 
 
I declare that: 
 
1. I, the undersigned certify that all the information in this application form 
and accompanying documentation is correct, complete and true to the best 
of my knowledge. 
2. I further confirm that the information referred to in my application is 
available for verification during GMP inspection. 
3. I also agree that the undersigned will continue to carry out 
pharmacovigilance to monitor the safety of the product in the market and 
provide safety update reports in accordance with PPB requirements  
 
4. I also agree that I am obliged to follow the requirements of the Pharmacy 
and Poisons Act, which are related to pharmaceutical products. 
5. I also consent to the processing of information provided for by the 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board.  
6.  I hereby confirm that fees will be paid/have been paid as provided for in 
the Pharmacy and Poisons Board Drug Registration Guideline. 
 
Name: 
…………………………………………………………………..…………………………….. 
 
Position in the company (Title/ 
Designation):………………………………………………………… 
 
Signature: 
…………………………………………………………………………….……………….. 
 
Date:……………………………………………………………………………………………
………. 
 
 
Official stamp: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P. O. Box 27663 - 00506 Lenana Road Opposite Russian Embassy 
Nairobi, 
Tel: +254-02-12345/6789, Fax: +254-02-12345, 
Website: www.Pharmacyboardkenya.org.ke, 
Email: info@pharmacyboardkenya.org.ke 
 
