HPT/PER/GUD/042  
Revision No.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH 
PHARMACY AND POISONS BOARD 
  
  
  
 
 
GUIDELINES FOR SUSPENSION, WITHDRAWAL, 
WITHHOLDING AND CANCELLATION/REVOCATION OF 
MARKETING AUTHORIZATION OF HEALTH PRODUCTS AND 
HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES IN KENYA 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
APRIL, 2025
  
 
 
Citation:  
The author of this document is the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, a State 
Corporation under the Ministry of Health, Republic of Kenya. It may be 
reproduced or adopted on condition that the recommended citation below is 
made.  
 
Recommended citation: Republic of Kenya, Ministry of Health, Pharmacy and 
Poisons Board, Guidelines for Suspension, Withdrawal, Withholding and 
Cancellation/Revocation of Marketing Authorization of Health Products and 
Health Technologies in Kenya, Version number 2, 2025 
 
All rights reserved:  
©Pharmacy and Poisons Board, 2025  
For clarifications, comments, or suggestions, please contact:  
The Chief Executive Officer 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
P.O. Box 27663 – 00506, Nairobi  
Telephone: 0709770100 
Email: info@pharmacyboardkenya.org   
Website: www.pharmacyboardkenya.org   
 
 
 
 
ii 
Table of Contents 
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS ............................................................ iv 
DEFINITION OF KEY TERMS ...................................................................... v 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT ............................................................................. vii 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION ................................................................................. 1 
1.1 
Background ..................................................................................... 1 
1.2 
Legal Framework ............................................................................. 1 
1.3 
Scope .............................................................................................. 2 
2.0 
REASONS FOR WITHDRAWAL, SUSPENSION, WITHHOLDING AND 
CANCELLATION OF MARKETING AUTHORIZATION. .................................... 3 
2.1 
Cancellation of a Marketing Authorization by the Authority ............. 3 
2.2 
Suspension of a Marketing Authorization by the Authority ............... 4 
2.3 
Withholding of a Marketing Authorization by the Authority .............. 6 
2.4 
Withdrawal of Marketing Authorization by the MAH ......................... 6 
2.5 
Revocation of marketing authorization by the Authority ................... 7 
3.0 
PROCESS OF WITHDRAWAL, SUSPENSION AND CANCELLATION OR 
REVOCATION OF MARKETING AUTHORIZATION. ...................................... 8 
3.1 
Suspension, cancellation and / or revocation of marketing 
authorization by the Authority ................................................................. 8 
3.2 
Withdrawal of marketing authorization by the Applicant ................ 10 
3.3 
Suspension or Cancellation/Rovocation Without  Notice ................ 11 
3.4 
Cancellation of A Marketing Authorization By An Applicant ........... 11 
4.0 
PUBLICATION OF SUSPENSIONS/WITHDRAWALS/CANCELATIONS 12 
5.0 
REFERENCES .................................................................................. 13 
6.0 
REVISION HISTORY ......................................................................... 14 
 
 
 
iii 
7.0 
CONTRIBUTORS/REVIEWERS ......................................................... 15 
8.0 
ANNEXES ......................................................................................... 16 
Annex 1 - Form 5: Notice of intention to Withdraw the registration of a 
health product or technology .................................................................. 16 
Annex 2 - Form 6: Notice of intention to withdraw the registration of a health 
product or technology ............................................................................ 18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iv 
 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS  
PPB  
Pharmacy and Poisons Board  
MAH  
Marketing Authorization Holder  
MA 
Marketing Authorization 
LTR  
Local Technical Representative 
GMP  
Good Manufacturing Practices  
WHO  
World Health Organization  
NMRA  
National Medicine Regulatory Authority  
HPT 
Health Product and Technologies 
INN 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
v 
DEFINITION OF KEY TERMS  
Withdrawal: It refers to the permanent discontinuation of Marketing 
Authorization by the Marketing Authorization Holder (MAH). Reasons for 
withdrawal could be manifold, including administrative or commercial. The 
MAH shall declare the reason for withdrawal, particularly if his/her action 
concerns the quality, safety and/or efficacy of the medicinal product.  
Withholding: It refers to the decision to delay or pause the issuance of a 
marketing Authorization or processing of a marketing authorization 
application until suspected risks on quality, safety and efficacy linked to the 
application or similar applications are resolved.  
Cancellation: It refers to the action taken by the NMRA for the invalidation 
of a marketing authorization that was lawful at the time of its granting and 
for which the reason for invalidation occurred subsequently e.g. due to 
additional [post-marketing] information about the medicinal product or due 
to the violation of the terms and conditions specified in the the Act, the 
Rules;or a condition of the issued certificate 
Suspension: It refers to the action taken by the NMRA, if a ground for refusal 
as defined in the legal provision developed or if one of the conditions imposed 
pursuant to maintaining the marketing authorization has not been met and 
the flaw has not been corrected within a reasonable period of time that is to 
be specified by the NMRA. The authorization of a Health Product and 
Technology is paused for a defined period on grounds of suspicion of public 
health risks OR requirement of further assurance of Quality, Efficacy, 
Effectiveness and Safety, until further regulatory actions can be taken. 
Revocation: It refers to the Action taken by the NMRA, if a marketing 
authorization was granted unlawfully from the outset, e.g., due to deception 
or the like. 
Health Product: This include human medicines, medical products, medicinal 
substances, vaccines, diagnostics, medical devices, blood products, 
traditional and alternative medicine, therapeutic feeds and nutritional 
formulations, cosmetics and related products 
 
 
 
vi 
Health Technology: This is the application of organized knowledge and skills 
in the form of devices, medicine, vaccines, procedures and systems developed 
to solve a health problem and improve the quality of life. 
The Board- The Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
Marketing Authorization (MA): The official approval granted by the NMRA 
that allows a pharmaceutical or medical product to be marketed or distributed 
within the country after evaluation of safety, efficacy and quality in the 
marketing authorization assessment process.  
Marketing authorization holder-means an individual or a corporate entity 
responsible for placing a health product or technology in the market either 
through importation, donation, distribution or sale in Kenya; 
Product Retention: Maintenance of a product in the register of licensed 
products.  
Recalls : the removal of specific batch/batches of a pharmaceutical product 
from the market for reasons relating to deficiencies in quality, safety or 
efficacy  
Applicant (for MA)  
A person or entity who has applied for regulatory approval of a product or a 
change thereof. All applicants are to own the product. Representatives of 
product owners may not hold themselves as applicants unless they own the 
product.  
In some jurisdictions this term is used in a wider sense (see “Marketing 
authorization holder)”.  
 
 
 
vii 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
The Registrar, Pharmacy, and Poisons Board would like to thank the following 
persons for their comments and contributions to the development of this 
guideline. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
1.1 
Background 
This guideline aims to offer overarching principles and aspects towards 
marketing authorization of health products and technologies in Kenya, 
ensuring that all HPTs in circulation meet the highest standards of quality, 
safety, and efficacy. Prior to the issuance of marketing authorization (MA), the 
Board conducts a thorough assessment of the information submitted by 
Marketing Authorization Holders (MAH) to ensure that Health Products 
comply with the requirements for quality, safety, and efficacy. Additionally, 
the quality, safety and efficacy of these HPTs continue to be monitored post-
authorization through pharmacovigilance activities and ongoing evaluations 
of the benefit-risk balance. 
If at any point in the product's life cycle the established standards for quality, 
safety, and efficacy are compromised, the Board has the authority to take 
appropriate measures, including withholding, suspending, or canceling the 
issued marketing authorization certificate. Furthermore, the MAH may 
voluntarily apply to the Board to withdraw the MA, provided they offer 
adequate justification. These guidelines are designed to uphold the integrity 
of HPTs available in Kenya, safeguarding public health by ensuring that only 
quality, safe and efficacious HPTs products are accessible in the marketplace. 
1.2 
Legal Framework  
The Pharmacy and Poisons Act, Cap 244, mandates the Board to, among 
others, set standards to ensure high levels of public health protection by 
ensuring access to quality, safe, efficacious and affordable HPTs. Sections 
3A(c) and 3B(e)(f) of the Act gives the Board powers to grant or withdraw 
marketing authorization subject to appropriate conditions and revise such 
conditions for MA as necessary and maintain a register of all authorized 
medicinal substances; 
Section 11 (1) of the Pharmacy and Poisons (Registration of Health Products 
and Technologies) Rules, 2022, Grants the  Board power to  withhold, 
 
 
 
2 
suspend, cancel or revoke the registration of a Health Product or Health 
Technology. 
1.3 
Scope 
This guideline addresses the withholding, suspending, withdrawing or 
canceling of a registration or marketing authorization in the event that 
quality, safety or efficacy issues are uncovered. This guideline also specifies 
requirements on when and how to withhold, suspend, withdraw or cancel a 
registration or MA. It applies to all HPTs in all cases covering pre-marketing, 
marketing and post marketing authorization. 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
2.0 
REASONS FOR WITHDRAWAL, SUSPENSION, WITHHOLDING AND 
CANCELLATION OF MARKETING AUTHORIZATION. 
2.1 
Cancellation of a Marketing Authorization by the Authority 
The Authority may cancel the marketing authorization of a registered health 
product and technologies if; 
2.1.1 
It determines that the HPT poses harm to patients, lacks 
therapeutic efficacy, or has an unfavorable risk-benefit 
balance. A lack of therapeutic efficacy is indicated when it is 
concluded that therapeutic results cannot be obtained from the 
HPT.  
2.1.2 
There are significant changes to the formulation, composition, 
design specifications, quality, safety, or presentation of the HPT 
that make it unsuitable for continued registration.  
2.1.3 
A specific quality defect or safety issue is repeatedly reported 
concerning a particular HPT from a specific MAH. 
2.1.4 
Accumulation of reported unanticipated adverse effects/ 
reactions.  
2.1.5 
New published research findings stating irreversible quality, 
safety or efficacy concerns.  
2.1.6 
The standard of quality, safety and efficacy as prescribed in the 
documentation for marketing authorization is not being 
complied with.  
2.1.7 
The product has proven to be ineffective for the approved 
indication(s);  
2.1.8 
It is proven that the product is unsafe in the normal conditions 
of use  
2.1.9 
If during the lifecycle of the generic product it is confirmed that 
the risk-benefit balance of the reference medicinal product is 
not favourable and the marketing authorization of that 
reference medicinal product is cancelled, the same action 
would be required also towards the generic medicinal products 
of that reference medicinal product.  
 
 
 
4 
2.1.10 Where there is change in the treatment policy for public health 
programmes. 
2.1.11 The circumstances under which the medicinal product was 
registered no longer exist. 
 
In the event where a product is cancelled in any country because of safety, 
quality, efficacy issues, the MAH shall notify the Board within one month of 
the cancellation, failure to do so will lead to cancellation of the MA. 
 
A written notice of cancellation shall then be issued to the Marketing 
Authorization Holder, stating the reason(s) for cancellation.  
 
2.2 
Suspension of a Marketing Authorization by the Authority 
Marketing 
authorization 
may 
be 
suspended 
under 
the 
following 
circumstances;  
 
2.2.1 
If any conditions specified in the marketing authorization 
certificate have not been fulfilled or if the supporting 
particulars have not been amended in accordance with Rule 13 
of the Pharmacy and Poisons (Registration of Health Products 
and Technologies) Rules, 2022.  
2.2.2 
If the manufacturing of the HPT does not comply with Good 
Manufacturing Practices as outlined in Section 35(B) of CAP 
244, the authorization may be suspended. This applies to any 
premises used for manufacturing, packaging, or storage that 
are deemed unsuitable.  
2.2.3 
If the Marketing Authorization Holder fails to apply for, pay 
maintenance fees, and submit the required documentation for 
annual retention and renewal of the certificate of registration 
as prescribed in Rules 8, 9, and 10 of the Pharmacy and 
Poisons (Registration of Health Products and Technologies) 
Rules, 2022.  
 
 
 
5 
2.2.4 
A registered medical product has been advertised in a manner 
which is false or misleading or does not comply with the 
provisions of the Laws and Regulations currently enforced by 
the Authority;  
2.2.5 
The Marketing Authorization Holder has contravened the Laws 
and Regulations currently enforced by the Authority;  
2.2.6 
The Marketing Authorization Holder made a false or misleading 
statement or misrepresentation in the application;  
2.2.7 
The Marketing Authorization Holder has failed to comply with 
the terms and conditions of the registration as provided in 
certificate of registration; if the MAH does not effectively 
implement product recalls, whether voluntary or statutory, as 
prescribed by Rule 17 of the Pharmacy and Poisons 
(Pharmacovigilance and Post Market Surveillance) Rules, 
2022.  
2.2.8 
Where it is determined by the Board that a reported quality 
defect or safety issue is resulting from negligence or deliberate 
omissions by the manufacturer/ MAH. 
2.2.9 
The Marketing Authorization Holder has failed to pay the 
prescribed retention fees within the prescribed time;  
2.2.10 The Marketing Authorization Holder has failed to submit post-
marketing Variations;  
2.2.11 It is strongly suspected that the product is unsafe in the normal 
conditions of use. 
2.2.12 The Marketing Authorization Holder, intentionally and without 
justifiable reasons has failed to submit reports on adverse 
effects; 
2.2.13 Renewal of product registration has been defaulted beyond the 
specified grace period.  
2.2.14 The Marketing Authorization Holder has failed to pay the 
prescribed retention fees within the prescribed time;  
2.2.15 Where the MAH failed to apply for renewal or re-registration 
within time. 
 
 
 
6 
 
Any suspension shall be effected upon a written notice (Annex 2, Form 6).  
The notice for suspension of a registered medical product shall:  
 
a) Set out the reason for the proposed suspension, any corrective action 
required to be taken and the time within which it must be taken;  
b) Require the Marketing Authorization Holder to show reasons as to 
why the suspension should not be effected.  
 
2.3 
Withholding of a Marketing Authorization by the Authority 
2.3.1 
The Board may withhold the issuance of marketing 
authorization where discrepancies are identified in the data 
submitted by the MAH during the review process, such as 
inconsistencies in manufacturing processes or formulation. In 
this instance, authorization may be delayed until these issues 
are investigated and resolved. 
2.3.2 
The Board may act upon emerging safety signals related to 
similar products currently in the market. If credible 
information suggests that a new product may pose comparable 
risks—such as reports of adverse reactions or product recalls—
the Board may withhold authorization until a comprehensive 
assessment is conducted. 
2.3.3 
The Board may withhold the issuance of marketing 
authorization where there are concerns regarding the 
sufficiency of clinical trial data or if post-marketing 
surveillance uncovers issues that adversely affect the product's 
benefit-risk profile 
2.3.4 
The Board may also withhold the issuance of marketing 
authorization until the compliance with GMP has been verified 
2.4 
Withdrawal of Marketing Authorization by the MAH 
2.4.1 
The medicinal product proves to be harmful under normal 
conditions of use; 
2.4.2 
Lack of  therapeutic efficacy; 
 
 
 
7 
2.4.3 
Requirements or obligations relating to the grant of the 
manufacturing authorization has not been fulfilled; 
2.4.4 
Commercial reasons (i.e. the withdrawal of the marketing 
authorisation is not linked to underlying quality, safety, 
efficacy or benefit/risk issues). 
NB: The MAH will determine the reason for this action. They must in 
particular declare whether it relates to the quality, safety, or efficacy of the 
medicinal product, or if it stems from administrative or commercial decisions. 
2.5 
Revocation of marketing authorization by the Authority 
Marketing authorization may be revoked under the following circumstances; 
 
2.5.1 
The premises, in which the medicine or part thereof is 
manufactured, packaged or stored by or on behalf of the holder 
of the Marketing Authorization Certificate is unsuitable for the 
manufacture, packaging or storage of the medicines  
2.5.2 
Unauthorized variation (e.g. mis-labelling, change of applicant, 
manufacturer, 
labelling, 
product 
information 
or 
other 
registered particulars)  
2.5.3 
Importation without permission and/or through unapproved 
route  
2.5.4 
Distribution of products to unauthorized facilities/premises, 
where applicable.  
2.5.5 
The product is found to have been promoted (by MAH, 
distributor, any other stakeholder) in an appropriate or 
unethical manner. 
Any revocation shall be effected upon a written notice (Annex 2, Form 6). The 
notice for revocation of a registered medical product shall:  
 
a) Set out the reason for the proposed revocation, any corrective action 
required to be taken and the time within which it must be taken;  
b) Require the Marketing Authorization Holder to show reasons as to 
why the revocation should not be effected.  
 
 
 
 
 
8 
3.0 
PROCESS OF WITHDRAWAL, SUSPENSION AND CANCELLATION 
OR REVOCATION OF MARKETING AUTHORIZATION. 
3.1 
Suspension, cancellation and / or revocation of marketing 
authorization by the Authority  
3.1.1 
The process for suspension, revocation or cancellation of 
marketing authorization begins with the identification of 
potential issues regarding the HPT as described in section 2.0 
above. This may include, but not limited to,  discrepancies in 
submitted data, safety concerns, quality concerns or non-
compliance with regulatory requirements. Such issues may 
arise from routine inspections, post-marketing surveillance, 
safety vigilance activities or stakeholder reports. 
3.1.2 
Upon identifying the reasons in (3.1.1) above, the Board 
conducts a preliminary investigation to determine the severity 
and implications of the concerns. This may involve reviewing 
relevant documentation, consulting experts such as expert 
committees, and gathering additional information from the 
MAH within a specific timeline. 
3.1.3 
If the Board determines that further action is warranted, it 
issues a Notice of Intention to Revoke, Suspend or Cancel the 
marketing authorization. This notice, prepared in Form 6 
(Annex 2), is sent to the MAH and clearly outlines the reasons 
for the proposed action.  
3.1.4 
Following the issuance of the notice, the MAH is provided an 
opportunity to respond. This allows the MAH to present 
evidence, provide clarifications, or offer justifications regarding 
the identified issues. The Board may arrange a hearing or 
request written submissions to ensure a fair process. The 
Board may limit the prohibition to supply the product, or its 
withdrawal from the market, to those batches which are the 
subject of dispute. 
3.1.5 
The Board reviews the MAH’s response and considers any 
additional evidence provided. This may involve further 
 
 
 
9 
consultations with experts or additional assessments to ensure 
a comprehensive understanding of the situation. 
3.1.6 
Based on the case specific outcomes, the Board makes a 
decision regarding the suspension, withdrawal, revoking, or 
cancellation of the marketing authorization. The decision is 
made with careful consideration of public health implications 
and regulatory standards. 
3.1.7 
Once a decision is reached, the Board formally notifies the MAH 
of the outcome, including the reasons for the action taken. If 
the marketing authorization is suspended, revoked or 
canceled, the notice will outline any necessary steps the MAH 
can take to rectify the situation, if applicable.  
3.1.8 
If the notice states that the action is necessary to prevent 
potential risk of death, serious illness or serious injury (prevent 
threat to public health) it becomes effective on the day on which 
the notice is given; i.e., immediately. In any other case—on the 
day specified for the purpose in the notice, being a day 
not  later than 20 working days after the notice is given 
3.1.9 
The Board may, for a HPT whose marketing authorization has 
been withdrawn, revoked or suspended, in exceptional 
circumstances during a transitional period, allow the supply of 
the medicinal product to patients who are already being treated 
with the medicinal product. 
3.1.10 Additional actions that will be taken by the Board will include 
updating regulatory databases, informing any relevant 
stakeholders.  
3.1.11 During implementation of the actions, the Board will continue 
to monitor compliance with any stipulated conditions, ensuring 
that any necessary corrective actions are taken by the MAH. In 
the case of suspension of marketing authorization, if conditions 
for reinstatement or resumption of marketing authorization are 
met, the MAH may apply for a review of the decision. 
 
 
 
10 
3.1.12 The Board shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that the 
supply of such HPTs is prohibited and the HPT removed from 
the market. 
3.2 
Withdrawal of marketing authorization by the Applicant 
3.2.1 
The Market Authorization Holder (MAH), will officially notify the 
Board of any reasons for withdrawing the marketing 
authorization issued for their HPT from the market. This 
includes requests for withdrawal, along with the reasons for 
such actions. Notifications should be submitted using a Form 
5 (Annex 1) for voluntary withdrawal by the MAH.  
3.2.2 
In addition to completing the form, the MAH should provide 
supplementary information, including the proposed effective 
date for the withdrawal, available therapeutic alternatives, and 
whether the planned withdrawal allows sufficient time for 
physicians and patients to transition to alternative therapies. 
3.2.3 
The MAH must notify the Board at least 60 days in advance, 
except in cases of unforeseeable circumstances that may 
require immediate notification (e.g., safety concerns). 
3.2.4 
Upon receipt, the Board may issue a written notice to the MAH 
or LTR approving the withdrawal of the HPT, provided that 
sufficient 
documentation 
and 
justification 
have 
been 
submitted. 
3.2.5 
The board may request for additional information to facilitate 
the processing of requests for withdrawals. 
3.2.6 
After resolving the issue that led to the withdrawal, the MAH 
may re-apply for marketing authorization, if applicable, with a 
revised dossier and all problems concerning the HPT sorted. 
3.2.7 
If  withdrawal is solely based on commercial reasons (i.e. the 
withdrawal of the marketing authorisation is not linked to 
underlying quality, safety, efficacy or benefit/risk issues), there 
may be no need for batch recalls, the HPT can remain on the 
Kenyan market until expiry date. The MAH remains 
 
 
 
11 
responsible for the batches on the market and for 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
3.2.8 
MAHs are also required to notify the PPB of any action taken 
outside  Kenya to suspend the marketing of a HPT, to withdraw 
a medicinal product from the market, to request the withdrawal 
of a marketing authorisation or not to apply for the renewal of 
a marketing authorisation 
3.3 
 Suspension or Cancellation/Rovocation Without  Notice  
 
The Authority may cancel or suspend the marketing authorization of a 
medical product without prior notice if it is necessary to do so in order to 
prevent injury to the health or safety of patients, users or other persons.  
The Marketing Authorization Holder may apply to the Authority, in writing, 
requesting that the cancellation or suspension be uplifted.  
 
The Authority may, within thirty (30) days after the date of receiving the 
application, review its decision.  
 
Where the registration of a product is suspended/cancelled based on safety 
or quality issues, the Authority shall withdraw the circulation of that product 
from the market.  
 
3.4 
Cancellation of A Marketing Authorization By An Applicant  
a) An applicant may cancel the marketing authorization of a product 
by submitting a letter addressed to the Chief Executive Officer of the 
Authority giving reason(s) for the cancellation of the marketing 
authorization of the Health products and Technologies.  
b) The Authority shall act on this request and amend its records within 
30 working days.  
 
 
 
 
12 
An applicant may at any time after the cancellation of a registration, resubmit 
a new application dossier for registration of the medical product, complying 
with the current requirements for registration.  
 
4.0 
PUBLICATION OF SUSPENSIONS/WITHDRAWALS/CANCELATIONS 
 
The Board updates its register of all HPTs with valid Marketing Authorization 
in accordance with section 3B(2)(g) of the Cap 244. All products whose 
Marketing Authorization has been suspended, withdrawn or revoked shall be 
included in the list of Products Suspended, Withdrawn, or Revoked. 
 
 
 
 
 
13 
5.0 
REFERENCES 
1. Cap 244 Pharmacy And Poisons Laws Of Kenya 
2. The Pharmacy and Poisons (Registration of Drugs) Rules  
3. EMA Website 
-https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/regulatory-procedural-
guideline/procedural-advice-publication-information-withdrawals-
applications-related-marketing-authorisation-human-medicinal-
products_en.pdf 
4. FDA 
Ghana. 
GUIDELINES 
FOR 
THE 
CANCELLATION/ 
SUSPENSION OF A REGISTERED DRUG  
5. https://fdaghana.gov.gh/wp 
content/uploads/2024/09/GUIDELINES-ON-THE-WITHDRAWAL-
CANCELLATION-OR-SUSPENSION-OF-MARKETING-
AUTHORIZATION-OF-DRUGS.pdf.WHO. The BlueBook 2nd Edition. 
Marketing Authorization of Pharmaceutical Products with Special 
Reference to Multisource (Generic) Products: A Manual for Drug 
Regulatory 
Authorities 
https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/handle/10665/65175/WHO_
DMP_RGS_98.5.pdf;sequence=1  
6. WHO. Guidelines for national authorities on quality assurance for 
biological 
products. 
WHO 
Expert 
Committee 
on 
Biological 
Standardization: 
forty-second 
report. 
Geneva. 
World 
Health 
Organization; 1992: Annex 2 (WHO Technical Report Series, No. 822) 
(http://www.who.int/biologicals/publications/trs/areas/biological
_products/WHO_TRS_822_A2.pdf)  
 
7.  Guidelines for the Cancellation/ Suspension of Marketing 
Authorization for medical products, Rwanda Food and Drug 
Authority, Doc. No.: DFAR/HMDAR/GDL/016  
 
 
 
 
 
14 
6.0 
REVISION HISTORY 
Revision 
No:  
Date   
Author/Reviewer   Section(s) 
revised   
Description of change  
1.  
18/10/2024 
Dr Ali Arale 
Table 
of 
Contents 
Updated according to the 
changes made in the 
revised version 
Definition 
of 
terms 
Updation 
and 
Clarification of terms and 
alignment with Cap 244 
and 
the 
PPB 
Rregistration 
of 
drugs 
Rules, 2022 
General 
Considerations  
Removal of  sections 
already 
addressed 
in 
other 
guidelines, 
including Organizational 
Structure 
and 
Management, 
Responsibilities 
of 
MAH/LTR, 
General 
Requirements 
and 
Procedures for MA, and 
Types of MA 
2. 
10/04/2025 
DPER/QMS 
Section 2.0 
More 
additional 
information 
on 
the 
circumstances related to 
reasons for  withdrawal, 
suspension, 
revoking 
and 
cancelation 
of  
marketing authorization 
were included. 
Revocation 
of 
Marketing 
Authorization 
Guideline 
revised 
to 
clearly 
outline 
the 
procedures 
for 
Revocation, Withdrawal, 
Withholding, 
and 
Suspension of MA 
Publications 
of 
suspensions/wi
thdrawals/canc
elations 
Aligned 
with 
the 
requirements of Cap 244 
Annexes 
Addition of Forms 5 and 
6 
for 
application 
submission 
References 
Inclusion and update of a 
References Section 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 
7.0 
CONTRIBUTORS/REVIEWERS 
 
1.  Dr. Ali Arale 
Chief 
Principle 
Regulatory 
Officer, 
Product 
Evaluation & Registration, PPB  
2.  Dr. 
Kariuki 
Gachoki 
Deputy Director, Medical Products & Health 
Technologies, PPB 
 
Reviewers: 
1.  Dr. Ahmed Mohamed 
Director, 
Medical 
Products 
& 
Health 
Technologies, PPB 
2.  Dr.Jonathan 
Nawiy 
Meriakol 
Head Biologics Division,Product Evaluation 
and Registration,PPB 
3.  Dr. Felistas Chepwogen Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
4.  Dr. Sarah Chesaro 
Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
5.  Dr. Burugu K. Edwin 
Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
6.  Dr. Bramwel Tongola 
Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
7.  Dr.Ann Tibin 
Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
8.  Dr.Vallarie Muguni 
Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
9.  Dr.Brayhan Ireri 
Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
10. Dr.Francis Letipila 
Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
11. Dr.Anushree Patel 
Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
12. Dr.Emmanuel Munguti Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
13. Dr.Purity Mutinda 
Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
14. Dr.Kauther Bajaber 
Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
15. Dr.Natasha Nyaberi 
Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
16. Mr. Alex Mutai 
Product Evaluation & Registration, PPB 
17. Mr. Anthony Kemboi 
Quality Management Systems 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
8.0 
ANNEXES 
Annex 1 - Form 5: Notice of intention to Withdraw the registration of a 
health product or technology 
 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
FORM 5                                                                                                                  (r. 11(3))     
NOTICE OF INTENTION OF WITHDRAWAL OF MARKETING AUTHORIZATION  OF 
HEALTH PRODUCT OR TECHNOLOGY 
Date  
Month   
Year  
 
 
 
TYPE OF HEALTH PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY  
 
    
    
  
  
Human 
health 
product  
Veterinary 
health 
product  
Herbal 
product  
  
Parallel 
product  
Medical device  
PRODUCT DETAILS  
Certificate of registration No.   
Name of product  
 
INN 
 
Strength  
 
Dosage/pharmaceutical form  
Certificate of registration 
holder  
 
DETAILS OF CONTACT PERSON  
Name  
 
Address  
 
Telephone No.  
 
E-Mail Address  
 
I would like to inform you that, <MAH’s name> has taken the decision to withdraw the 
application for Marketing Authorization of <Product Name>, (INN), strength(s), 
pharmaceutical form(s)>, which was intended to be used for <applied for MAH’s 
proposed indication>.  
 
 
 
 
REASON FOR WITHDRAWAL  
 This withdrawal is based on the following reasons  
<Refer to guideline for Suspension, withdrawal, withholding and Cancellation/Revocation of 
Health Products and Technologies (HPT/PER/GUD/042) for the reasons of  withdrawal 
under section 2.4 of the guideline. 
The following are possible examples, amongst others>:  
<identification of major manufacturing issues>  
<identification of major pre-clinical issue>  
<identification of major clinical issues>  
<identification of major GxP issues>  
Other: <please elaborate>  
<Please provide any further detailed comment as appropriate>  
<Provide additional information on any future plan for development of the product>  
Declaration by the applicant 
I agree for this letter to be published on the PPB website.  
  
 
Date  
Name  
Signature  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 2 - Form 6: Notice of intention to withdraw the registration of a 
health product or technology 
 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
FORM 6                                                                                                           (r. 11(3))     
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO SUSPEND,  CANCEL OR REVOKE THE MARKETING 
AUTHORIZATION OF A HEALTH PRODUCT AND TECHNOLOGY 
Date  
Month   
Year  
 
 
 
TYPE OF MEDICAL PRODUCT OR HEALTH TECHNOLOGY  
 
    
    
  
  
Human 
health 
product  
Veterinary 
health 
product  
Herbal 
product  
  
Parallel 
product  
Medical device  
PRODUCT DETAILS  
Certificate of registration No.   
Name of product  
 
INN  
 
Strength  
 
Dosage/pharmaceutical form  
Certificate of registration 
holder  
 
DETAILS OF CONTACT PERSON  
Name  
 
Address  
 
Telephone No.  
 
E-Mail Address  
 
REASON FOR WITHHOLDING, SUSPENSION OR CANCELATION/REVOCATION  
 
SIGNATURE  
Date  
Name  
Signature  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P. O. Box 27663 - 00506 Lenana Road Opposite Russian Embassy Nairobi, 
Tel: +254-02-12345/6789, Fax: +254-02-12345, 
Website: www.Pharmacyboardkenya.org.ke, 
Email: info@pharmacyboardkenya.org.ke 
 
 
