 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
684 
PART B: FEES 
Particulars 
Amount (Kshs) 
Application for the disposal of pharmaceutical waste 
2500 
Made on the 8th June, 2022. 
MUTAHI KAGWE, 
Cabinet Secretary for Health. 
 
  
LEGAL NOTICE NO. 100 
THE PHARMACY AND POISONS ACT 
(Cap. 244) 
IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred by section 44(1)(d) of the 
Pharmacy and Poisons Act, the Cabinet Secretary for Health, after 
consultation with the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, makes the 
following rules— 
THE PHARMACY AND POISONS (REGISTRATION OF HEALTH 
PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES) RULES, 2022 
 
PART I—PRELIMINARIES 
 
1. These Rules may be cited as the Pharmacy and Poisons
(Registration of Health Products and Technologies) Rules, 2022. 
Citation. 
2. In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires— 
Interpretation. 
“Act” means the Pharmacy and Poisons Act; 
Cap. 244. 
“blood product” means a medicinal product based on a blood
constituent which is prepared industrially and includes albumin, 
immunoglobulin and a coagulating factor; 
 
“cosmetics” includes any substance or mixture of substances 
manufactured, sold or represented for use in cleansing, improving or
altering the complexion, skin, hair, eyes or teeth, and includes
deodorants and perfumes; 
 
“good manufacturing practice certificate” means a document 
issued by a competent regulatory authority that certifies compliance to
good manufacturing practice; 
 
“immunogenic substance” means an unformulated active
substance which may be— 
 
(a) subsequently formulated with excipients to produce a
medicinal product;  
 
(b) whole bacterial cells, viruses, or parasites whether live or
killed, split bacterial cells, viruses, or parasites, crude or 
purified antigens isolated from killed or living cells;  
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
685 
 
(c) crude or purified antigens secreted from living cells, 
recombinant or synthetic carbohydrate, protein or peptide
antigens, polynucleotides; or  
 
(d) conjugates; 
 
“import” includes importation in accordance with the Pharmacy
and Poisons (Parallel Imported Medicinal Substances) Rules, 2019; 
 
No. 126 of 2019. 
“in-vitro diagnostics medical device” means a medical device, 
whether used alone or in combination, intended by the manufacturer for 
the in vitro examination of specimens derived from the human body
solely or principally to provide information for diagnostic, monitoring 
or compatibility purposes; 
 
“medicinal product” means a natural or synthetic active
substance or combination of substances administered to a human being
with a view to treating or preventing a disease, making a diagnosis,
correcting or modifying a physiological function; 
 
“medicinal substance” means a substance, the origin of which
may be human, animal, vegetable or chemical including human blood
and human blood products, micro-organisms, whole animals, parts of
organs, animal secretions, toxins, extracts, blood products, micro-
organisms, plants, parts of plants, vegetable secretions, extracts, 
elements, naturally occurring chemical materials and chemical products 
obtained by chemical change or synthesis; 
 
“parallel importation” means the importation of patented drugs 
under section 58(2) of the Industrial Property Act, 2001; 
 
No. 3 of 2001. 
“permanent residence” means a status granted to a person under
section 37 of the Kenya Citizenship and Immigration Act, 2011; 
 
No. 12 of 2011. 
“registered health product or technology” means a health product 
or technology for human use, approved by the Board, and presented
into the market in a ready form, in a special package and with a specific
name; 
 
“vaccine” means heterogeneous class of medicinal substance 
containing immunogenic substances capable of inducing specific,
active and protective host immunity against infectious diseases. 
 
PART II—REGISTRATION OF HEALTH PRODUCTS AND 
TECHNOLOGIES 
 
3. A person shall not import, manufacture or sell a health product 
or technology in Kenya unless that health product or technology has 
been registered under these Rules. 
Control of the 
manufacture, etc., of 
drugs 
4. (1) A person who intends to import, manufacture or sell a
health product or technology shall apply to the Board for the
registration of the health product or health technology in Form 1 set out
in the First Schedule. 
Application for 
registration of health 
product or 
technology. 
(2) An applicant subrule (1) shall— 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
686 
(a) specify the particulars of the person with appropriate
knowledge of all aspects of the health product or health 
technology who shall be responsible for all communication
between the applicant and the Board in the declaration page 
of the application form; and 
 
(b) where the applicant is not a citizen of Kenya or is a company 
incorporated outside Kenya, appoint a local representative
who shall be a citizen of Kenya, a person who is has
permanent residence or a company incorporated in Kenya. 
 
(3) The application made under subrule (1) shall be accompanied 
by— 
 
(a) a proposed label for use on the health product; 
(b) a copy of the manufacturing licence of the health product,
where applicable; 
(c) a copy of the good manufacturing practice certificate from
the Board and the regulatory authority of the country where
the health product is manufactured; 
(d) a copy of a certificate of analysis from a quality control 
laboratory recognised by the Board, where applicable; 
(e) a copy of the marketing authorisation or certificate of
registration of the health product or technology from the
regulatory authority of the country where the health product
or technology is sold; 
(f) the available data on the quality, safety, efficacy and
performance of the health product or technology submitted
in a common technical dossier format; 
(g) a sample of the health product; 
(h) proof of ownership of the site for the manufacture of the 
health product, if applicable;  
(i) where the applicant is not a citizen of Kenya or is a company 
incorporated outside Kenya, a copy of the agreement
appointing the local representative;    
(j) where the application relates to a health product or 
technology which is registered with a foreign regulatory
body,— 
(i) a copy of the certificate of registration;  
(ii) the professional information relating to the health
product or technology; and  
(iii) the conditions of the registration of the health product or
technology; 
(k)  proof that the applicant holds─ 
(i) a valid practicing licence issued in accordance with
section 9A of the Act; 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
687 
 
(ii) a valid wholesale dealer’s licence issued in accordance
with section 27 of the Act;  
(iii) a valid licence to deal in poisons for mining or 
agricultural purposes issued in accordance with section
28 of the Act;  
(iv) a valid licence to sell Part II poisons issued in 
accordance with section 32 of the Act; or  
(v) a valid manufacturing licence issued in accordance with
section 35A of the Act; and 
(l)  proof of payment of the application fees set out in the Second
Schedule. 
(4) An applicant shall notify the Board of any variation to the 
agreement appointing the local representative within seven days of the 
variation. 
 
5. (1) The Board shall consider the application made under rule
4, and, shall, if it is satisfied of the safety, efficacy, quality,
performance and economic value of the health product or technology,
register the health product or technology and issue a certificate of
registration in Form 2 set out in the First Schedule. 
Processing of 
application for 
registration of health 
product or 
technology.  
(2) The Board may, while considering the application made 
under rule 4, approve the details as supplied by the applicant or 
approve it with such amendments as it may consider appropriate in 
respect of the following particulars— 
 
(a) the name under which the health product or technology may
be sold;  
 
(b) the labelling of the health product; 
 
(c) the statement of the representations to be made for the
promotion of the health product regarding— 
 
(i) 
the claim to be made for the health product; 
 
(ii) 
the route of administering the health product; 
 
(iii) the dosage of the health product; 
 
(iv) the storage conditions of the health product;  
 
(vi) the contra-indications, the side effects and precautions,
if any of the health product; and 
 
(vii) the package size of the health product. 
 
(3) When evaluating an application made under rule 4, the Board 
may— 
 
(a) subject a sample of the health product to an evaluation by an
analyst; and 
 
(b) consider the evaluation report of an institution that has 
evaluated the health product. 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
688 
(4) The Board shall issue a certificate of registration under 
subrule (1) if the applicant has— 
 
(a) a valid practicing licence issued in accordance with section 
9A of the Act; 
 
(b) a valid wholesale dealer’s licence issued in accordance with
section 27 of the Act;  
 
(c) a valid licence to deal in poisons for mining or agricultural 
purposes issued in accordance with section 28 of the Act;  
 
(d) a valid licence to sell Part II poisons issued in accordance
with section 32 of the Act; or  
 
(e) a valid manufacturing licence issued I accordance with
section 35A of the Act.  
 
(5) If the Board is not satisfied as to the quality, safety efficacy 
and performance, or economic value of the health product, it may, after
providing an opportunity to the applicant to be heard, reject the
application made under rule 4 and inform the applicant the reasons for 
rejection in writing. 
 
6. The Registrar shall maintain a register of health products and
technologies registered in under there Rules in Form 3 set out in the
First Schedule. 
Register of health 
products and 
technologies.  
7. When processing an application made under rule 4, the Board
may liaise with any other regulatory authority or institution in respect
of matters of common interest or a specification investigation. 
Collaborative 
measures when 
processing 
application for 
registration.  
8. (1) A person who holds a certificate of registration under rule 
5(1) who wishes to have the product retained in the register shall
annually apply for the retention of the product in the register in the in 
Form 4 set out in the Schedule. 
Annual retention. 
(3) An application made under subrule (1) shall specify 
information on— 
 
(a) the product summary; 
 
(b) the finished product manufacturing sites; 
 
(c) the active ingredient manufacturing sites; 
 
(d) the approved presentations of actual product and product
appearance; 
 
(e) the approved batch formula and batch sizes;  
 
(f) the approved specifications and analytical procedures; and 
 
(g) the steps taken post-registration including variations, if any 
 
(3) An application made under subrule (1) shall be accompanied 
by─ 
 
(a) a copy of a valid good manufacturing certificate; and 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
689 
 
(b) the annual retention fees specified in the Second Schedule. 
9. (1) A person who intends to renew their registration shall 
apply for renewal of registration  in Form 4 set out in the First
Schedule. 
Renewal of 
certificate of 
registration. 
(2) A person who makes an application under sub-rule (1) shall— 
 
(a) have paid the retention fees referred to in rule 8; and 
 
(b) comply with the prescribed guideline for Re-registration and
Renewal of health products and technologies. 
 
(3)  An application made under sub-rule (1) shall specify
information on— 
 
(a) 
the health product or technology; 
 
(b) 
non clinical study reports;  
 
(c) 
clinical study report; 
 
(d) 
variations;  
 
(e) 
quality review of the health product or technology; and 
 
(f) 
vigilance and product safety reports, including product
complaints and market surveillance. 
 
(4) The Board shall consider the application made under subrule
(1), and, shall, if it is satisfied of the safety, efficacy, quality, 
performance and economic value of the health product or technology,
register the health product or technology and renew the registration and
issue a Renewal of Registration Certificate in Form 3 set out in the
First Schedule. 
 
10. (1) A certificate of registration issued under rule 5(1) or a 
renewal certificate under rule 9(3), shall be valid for five years from the
date of issue. 
Validity of 
certificates. 
(2) If an application made under rule 9 is submitted before the
expiration of the period referred to in subrule (1), the certificate shall 
remain in force until the Board makes a decision on the application. 
 
11. (1) The Board may withhold, suspend, or cancel the
registration of a health product or health technology if— 
Withholding, 
Suspension, or 
revocation of 
certificate of 
registration. 
(a) the person issued with a certificate of registration requests
the Board to cancel the registration of the health product or
technology; 
(b) the 
person 
who 
was 
issued 
with 
the 
certificate
misrepresented the information contained in the application
made under rule 4; 
 
(c) the certificate was acquired fraudulently; 
 
(d) the person who was issued with the certificate has failed to
comply with— 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
690 
(i) the Act; 
 
(ii) these Rules; or  
 
(iii) a condition of the certificate;  
 
(e) the formulation, composition, design specification, quality,
safety or presentation of the health product has changed to
the extent that it renders the health product unsuitable to
continue to be registered; or 
 
(f) it is in the public interest to do so. 
 
(3) The Board shall, before suspending or cancelling the
registration of health product or technology under subrule (1), issue a
notice of intention to suspend or cancel the registration of a health
product or technology in Form 5 set out in the First Schedule to the 
person who was issued with the certificate of registration and give the 
person an opportunity to be heard. 
 
12. The person to whom a certificate of registration is issued is
required to notify the Board, in Form 6 set out in the First Schedule, of
his intention to withdraw the registration for a health product and 
technology. 
Withdrawal of 
certificate of 
registration. 
PART III—MISCELLANEOUS 
 
13. (1) Where there is a change in a health product or technology 
or the Board is satisfied that a variation to a registered health product or 
technology is required, the Board may, by notice in writing given to the 
person to whom a certificate of registration was issued, make such 
variation as it considers appropriate and enter the variation in the 
Register. 
Variation of 
information on 
health product or 
technology. 
(2) Where there is a change in the product details of a health
product or technology, the person to whom a certificate of registration
is issued shall report the Board— 
 
(a) any quality and safety changes or any defect which could
impact patient safety of a marketed product; or 
 
(b) any marketing or regulatory decisions made in the country of
origin or in another country where the product is marketed. 
 
14.(1) The Board may, where it considers it necessary to protect 
public or animal health or in the event of a threat to human or animal 
life or health, the Board, issue a provisional certificate of registration
for a health product or technology. 
Registration 
during
emergency. 
(2) A person who intends to obtain the provisional certificate of 
registration for a health product or technology under subrule (1) shall
apply to the Board, in Form 2 set out in the First Schedule. 
 
(3) Where the applicant is not a citizen of Kenya or is a company
incorporated outside Kenya, the applicant shall appoint a local
representative who shall be a citizen of Kenya, a person who is has
permanent residence or a company incorporated in Kenya. 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
691 
 
(4) An application under subrule (2) shall be accompanied by─ 
 
(a) such documents as may be necessary to support the
application; 
(b) where the applicant is not a citizen of Kenya or is a company 
incorporated outside Kenya, a copy of the agreement
appointing the local representative;  
(c) proof that the applicant holds─ 
) 
 
(i) a valid practicing licence issued in accordance with 
section 9A of the Act; 
(ii) 
a valid wholesale dealer’s licence issued in accordance
with section 27 of the Act;  
(iii) a valid licence to deal in poisons for mining or 
agricultural purposes issued in accordance with section
28 of the Act;  
(iv) a valid licence to sell Part II poisons issued in 
accordance with section 32 of the Act; or  
(iv) a valid manufacturing licence issued in accordance
with section 35A of the Act; and 
(e) the fees specified in the Second Schedule. 
(5) When determining an application under subrule (1), the Board 
shall consider the facts established from the valid marketing
authorisation for the health product or technology and the report on the 
assessment of the health product or technology obtained from the 
authority competent for medicinal products, if available. 
 
(6)  The person to whom the certificate of registration is issued 
under subrule (1) shall be responsible for the labelling, packaging, 
advertising and pharmacovigilance system of the health product or 
technology. 
 
(7) The Board shall issue a provisional certificate of registration
under subrule (1) if the person has— 
 
(a) a valid practicing licence issued in accordance with section 
9A of the Act; 
 
(b) a valid licence to deal in poisons for mining or agricultural
purposes issued in accordance with section 28 of the Act;  
 
(c) a valid licence to sell Part II poisons issued in accordance
with section 32 of the Act; or  
 
(d) a valid manufacturing licence issued I accordance with
section 35A of the Act.  
 
(8) A provisional certificate of registration issued under subrule 
(1) shall be valid for two years from the date of issue or until the 
declaration made under section 35 of the Public Health Act is revoked. 
Cap. 242 
 
(9) Any variation to the agreement appointing the local 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
692 
representative to the application made under subrule (2) shall be
notified to the Board within seven days of the variation. 
15.(1) The Board may, where it considers it necessary register a
health product or technology, for compassionate use by a person whose
application under rule 4 is pending or a sponsor of a clinical trial in 
relation to an investigational health product. 
Registration for 
compassionate use. 
(2) An application for the registration of a health product or
technology for compassionate use of the health product or technology
in Form 7 set out in the First Schedule. 
 
(3) Where the applicant is not a citizen of Kenya or is a company 
incorporated outside Kenya, the applicant shall appoint a local
representative who shall be a citizen of Kenya, a person who is has
permanent residence or a company incorporated in Kenya. 
 
(4) An application under subrule (1) shall be accompanied— 
 
(a) by relevant documents indicating─ 
 
(i) that the health product or technology is authorised in a
country with equivalent requirements as regards the 
quality, safety efficacy and performance of the health
product or technology; 
(ii) 
where the health product or technology does not have a
marketing authorisation, the quality analysis of the 
health product or technology;  
 
(iii) that the health product or technology constitutes a
significant 
therapeutic, 
scientific 
and 
technical
innovation; 
 
(iv) that the health product or technology is intended for a
group of patients with chronic or severely debilitating 
disease that cannot be satisfactorily treated with any
health product or technology that has been registered 
by the Board; 
 
(v) 
the related adverse effects, which shall be prepared or
confirmed by the competent clinical department; 
 
(vi) the protocol for treatment with the health product or
technology; and 
 
(vii) the warranties of the manufacturer of the health
product or technology as specified in subrule (3);  
 
(b) where the applicant is not a citizen of Kenya or is a company
incorporated outside Kenya, a copy of the agreement
appointing the local representative; and 
(c) the fees specified in the Second Schedule. 
 
(5) The manufacturer of a health product or technology which is 
the subject of the application made under subrule (1) shall— 
 
(a) supply the health product or technology for at least one year
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
693 
 
after the expiry of the period specified in the certificate of
registration issued under this rule; 
(b) avail the health product or technology free of charge during 
the period specified in the certificate of registration issued
under this rule; and 
 
(c) label the health product or technology in accordance with
section 41 of the Act. 
 
(6) If the health product or technology relates to a clinical trial in 
relation to an investigational health product, the applicant shall attach
the recommendation of the National Clinical Trial Expert Committee. 
 
(7)  The Board shall consider the application made under subrule 
(2), and, if it is satisfied of the safety, efficacy, quality, performance
and economic value of the health product or technology, register the
health product or technology and issue a certificate of registration in 
Form 2 set out in the First Schedule. 
 
(8) Any variation to the agreement appointing the local 
representative to the application made under subrule (3) shall be
notified to the Board within seven days of the variation. 
 
16.(1) The Board may, in writing, authorise a person to import or 
distribute for a specified period to a specified person or institution a
specified quantity of a particular health product that is not registered. 
Authorisation of 
unregistered health 
product or 
technology. 
(2) A health product distributed pursuant to authorisation granted
under subrule (1) may be used for such purposes and in such manner 
and during such period as the Board may in writing determine. 
 
(3) A person who intends to obtain the authorisation under 
subrule (1), for purposes other than a clinical trial, shall apply to the 
Board, in Form 8 set out in the First Schedule. 
 
(4) Where the applicant is not a citizen of Kenya or is a company 
incorporated outside Kenya, the applicant shall appoint a local
representative who shall be a citizen of Kenya, a person who is has
permanent residence or a company incorporated in Kenya. 
 
(5) The application made under subrule (3) shall be accompanied 
by— 
 
(a) a 
product 
brochure 
containing 
relevant 
chemical,
pharmaceutical, 
pre-clinical 
pharmacological 
and
toxicological data and where applicable, human or animal
pharmacological and clinical data with the health product
concerned; 
(b) witnessed informed written consent document, where
applicable; 
(c) details of registration or pending registration of the health 
product with any other regulatory authority, if available; 
(d) evidence of compliance of the manufacturer of the health
product with Good Manufacturing Practice standards as
determined by the Board;  
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
694 
(e) reasons why a registered health product cannot be used;  
(f) where the applicant is not a citizen of Kenya or is a company 
incorporated outside Kenya, a copy of the agreement
appointing the local representative;  
(g) proof that the applicant holds─ 
(i)   a valid practicing licence issued in accordance with
section 9A of the Act; 
(ii) 
a valid wholesale dealer’s licence issued in accordance
with section 27 of the Act;  
(iii) a valid licence to deal in poisons for mining or
agricultural purposes issued in accordance with section 
28 of the Act;  
(iv) a valid licence to sell Part II poisons issued in 
accordance with section 32 of the Act; or  
(v) 
a valid manufacturing licence issued in accordance
with section 35A of the Act; and 
(h) the fees specified in the Second Schedule. 
(6) The Board shall grant authorisation under subrule (1) if the 
applicant has— 
 
(a) a valid practicing licence issued in accordance with section 
9A of the Act; 
 
(b) a valid wholesale dealer’s licence issued in accordance with 
section 27 of the Act;  
 
(c) a valid licence to deal in poisons for mining or agricultural 
purposes issued in accordance with section 28 of the Act;  
 
(d) a valid licence to sell Part II poisons issued in accordance
with section 32 of the Act; or  
 
(e) a valid manufacturing licence issued I accordance with
section 35A of the Act.  
 
(7) Where the Board issues an authorisation under subrule (1), 
the person to whom the authorisation is issued shall submit to the 
Board— 
 
(a) progress reports after every six months from the date when 
the authorisation was issued; 
 
(b) any adverse event report, whenever an adverse event occurs; 
and 
 
(c) a progress report within thirty days after the completion or
termination of the use of the health product. 
 
(8) The Board may, if the Board is of the opinion that the safety 
of any patient or animal is compromised or the scientific reasons for 
administering the unregistered health product have changed— 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
695 
 
(a) impose any additional conditions; 
 
(b) request additional information; 
 
(c) inspect the site where the unregistered health product is
manufactured, stored or administered; or 
 
(d) withdraw the authorisation to treat the patient or animal. 
 
(9) The Board may, by notice in writing withdraw the 
authorisation issued under subrule (1) if the any of purposes or the 
manner specified in subrule (2) is contravened. 
 
(10) A health product authorised under this rule shall be labelled 
in accordance with section 41 of the Act. 
 
(11) An applicant shall notify the Board of any variation to the
agreement appointing the local representative within seven days of the 
variation. 
 
(12) The requirements in this regulation shall apply to
applications for donations of health products and technologies. 
 
17. The Pharmacy and Poisons (Registration of Drugs) Rules are
revoked. 
Revocation of  
LN 147 of 1981. 
 
 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
696 
FIRST SCHEDULE 
FORM 1                                                                                                          (r. 4(1), 14(2)) 
APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF HEALTH PRODUCT OR HEALTH 
TECHNOLOGY 
To:  
The Registrar  
Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
Nairobi. 
1. 
Name of Applicant ……………………………………………………... 
2. 
Address of Applicant …………………………………………………... 
3. 
Contact of Applicant …………………………………………………… 
4. 
Name of health product or health technology ………………………….. 
5. 
Type of health product or technology ………………………………….. 
6. 
Presentation of health product or technology ………………………….. 
7. 
Physical appearance of health product …………………………………. 
8. 
Therapeutic classification of health product or technology ……………. 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
9. 
Name of manufacturer of health product ………………………………. 
10. Address of manufacturer of health product …………………………….. 
11. Country of origin of health product or technology …………………….. 
12. Registration numbers and countries of registration of the health product or 
technology …………………………………………………………… 
13. Pharmaceutical Formula of the health product ………………………… 
14. Name and structural formula of the active ingredient of the health product 
…………………………………………………………………. 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
15. Specifications for all the active and inactive raw materials used in the
manufacturing process …………………………………………………. 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
16. Analytical control procedures which are performed on all active and inactive 
materials before the materials are used in the manufacturing process
………………………………………………………………….. 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
17. Analytical control procedures and the frequency with which they are performed in
the manufacturing process ………..……………………… 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
697 
 
18. Full specifications of the final manufactured health product …………... 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
19. The analytical procedures performed on the final manufactured health product
…………………………………………………………………. 
20. The inferred shelf life of the final manufactured health product ………. 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
21. Method of packaging of the final manufactured health product ……….. 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
22. Summary of the experimental details of the tests performed on the health product or
technology to confirm its pharmaceutical effects…. 
23. Proposed dosage of the health product ………………………………… 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
24. Summary of the experimental details of the tests performed on the health product or
technology to confirm its physiological ability…...…. 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
…………………………………………………………………………... 
25. Declaration by the applicant: ……………...…………………………… 
………………………………………………………………………...………………
..……………..…………………………………………..…. 
Name of the responsible person ………………………………………... 
Signature of applicant………………Date of application ……………… 
 
 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
698 
FORM 2                                                                           
(r. 5(1), 9(3), 15(7)) 
 
CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION/RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION OF HEALTH 
PRODUCT OR HEALTH TECHNOLOGY 
 
Serial Number………….. 
 
It is notified that the health product or health technology described in this certificate has 
been registered by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board subject to the conditions specified in 
this certificate. 
 
1. International Non-proprietary name of health product or technology 
…………………………………………………………. 
 
2. Name under which the health product or technology is to be marketed (Trade 
Name) …………………………………………… 
 
3. Registration 
number 
of 
the 
health 
product 
or 
technology 
…………………………………………………………………….... 
 
4. Quantities 
per 
unit 
(strength) 
of 
the 
health 
product 
……………………………………………………………………… 
 
5. Dosage Form of preparations ……………………………………… 
 
6. Conditions under which the health product or technology is registered 
…………………………………………………………... 
 
7. Name, address and contact information of the manufacturer of the health product 
……………………………………………………… 
 
8. Date of registration …………………………………..…………….. 
 
9. Date of expiry of registration ……………………………………… 
 
10. Authorised signature of the Board ….……….. Date………………. 
 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
699 
 
 
FORM 3                                                                                                 
(r. 6) 
REGISTER OF HEALTH PRODUCTS 
No. Brand 
Name 
Generic Strength Dosage 
form 
Pack 
Size 
Certificate 
of 
Registratio
n Holder  
Local 
Technical
Represen
ative 
 
Country 
of Origin
Registration
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
700 
FORM 4                                                                                    
(r. 8(1), 9(1)) 
APPLICATION FOR RE-REGISTRATION/RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE OF 
REGISTRATION 
TYPE OF APPLICATION – HUMAN PRODUCT  
(Registration/Re-Registration) 
 
MODULE 1: ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION 
 
SECTION 1: PARTICULARS OF THE PRODUCT  
 
1.0 Name and address of Applicant 
 
1.1 
Type of the Medicinal product licence application 
 
Type of the medicinal product application  
New/innovator  
Generic                  
Conditional Authorization  
Emergency Use Authorization  
Extension application  
Duplicate license 
Renewal/Re-registration*  
* If variation has been made, information supporting the changes should be 
submitted. See variation guidelines for registered medicinal products.    
1.2 
Trade/Proprietary name (proprietary Product name):  
 
1.3 
Approved / generic name/Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient: 
 
1.4  
Strength of the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) per unit dosage of the 
product and specifications of the API: 
 
1.5  
Dosage form 
 
1.5.1 
Pharmaceutical Dosage form of the product: 
 
1.5.2 
Therapeutic Indication (s): 
 
1.5.2 
Route(s) of administration (use current list of standard terms - European 
Pharmacopoeia):  
 
1.6  
Packing/Pack size of the product:  
 
1.6.1 
Pack size: 
 
1.6.2 
Primary packing materials: 
 
1.6.3 
Secondary packing materials: 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
701 
 
 
1.7  
Visual Description of the product 
 
1.8 
Proposed/Approved Shelf life of the product 
 (In months):  
 
1.9  
Pharmacotherapeutic group and ATC Code 
 
1.10 
Legal category 
 
1.11 
Country of origin or country of release: 
 
1.12 
Product Marketing Authorisation in the country of origin. (Attach certificate of 
pharmaceutical product from competent regulatory authority)   
 
1.12.1 
Registration status from countries with Stringent Regulatory Authorities where 
applicable 
 
1.12.2 
List of countries in which a similar application has been submitted 
 
1.12.3 
Statement on whether an application for the Marketing Authorisation has been 
previously rejected, withdrawn or repeatedly deferred in the East Africa 
Community Partner States 
 
1.12.4 
Certificates of approval of Drug Master File by Stringent Regulatory Authority 
 
1.12.5 
Manufacturing Licence and Product registration certificate/Licence 
 
1.13  
Name(s) and complete address (es) of the manufacturer(s) 
 
1.13.1 
Name and complete address(es)of the manufacturer(s) of the FPP, including the 
finished pharmaceutical product release if different from the manufacturer.         
 
1.13.2 
 Name(s) and complete address (es) of the manufacturer(s) of the active 
pharmaceutical ingredient                                                                                       
1.14  
Compliance to Good Manufacturing Practice and Good Clinical Practice  
 
1.14.1 
Good Manufacturing Practice from the Board 
 
1.14.2 
Good Clinical Practice or Good Laboratory Practice  
1.15  
Name and complete address of the Local Technical Representative of 
Manufacture (for finished pharmaceutical Product)  
 
1.16 
Product Information: Summary of Product Characteristics, Prescribers/Patient 
information leaflet, Mock-ups and Photo scan of the product: 
 
1.17 
State the reference/monograph standard used for Finished Medicinal Product. 
 
1.18.1 
Specification of active ingredient(s) from active pharmaceutical ingredient
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
702 
manufacturer (Specification number and Version): 
 
1.18.2 
Specification of active ingredient(s) from FPP manufacturer (Specification
number and Version): 
 
1.18.3 
Specification of Finished Pharmaceutical Product (Specification number and 
Version): 
 
1.19 
 
Name and address (physical and postal) of the Contract Research 
Organisation(s) where the clinical studies of the product were conducted. (If 
applicable) 
 
1.20 
DECLARATION BY AN APPLICANT 
That information is true and correct 
 
Name, position and signature …………………………………. 
 
Official stamp:………………………….. 
* Note: If fees have been paid, attach proof of payment 
 
 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
703 
 
FORM 5                                                                                         
 (r. 11(3)) 
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO WITHHOLD, SUSPEND OR CANCEL THE 
REGISTRATION OF A HEALTH PRODUCT OR TECHNOLOGY 
Date 
Month  
Year 
 
 
 
TYPE OF MEDICAL PRODUCT OR HEALTH TECHNOLOGY 
  
  
  
  
  
Human 
health 
product 
Veterinary 
health product  
Herbal product 
Parallel product 
Medical device 
PRODUCT DETAILS 
Certificate of registration No. 
 
Name of product 
 
Strength 
 
Dosage/pharmaceutical form 
 
Certificate of registration holder 
 
DETAILS OF CONTACT PERSON 
Name 
 
Address 
 
Telephone No. 
 
E-Mail Address 
 
REASON FOR WITHHOLDING, SUSPENSION OR 
CANCELATION/REVOCATION 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE 
Date 
Name 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
704 
 
FORM 6                                                                                               
(r. 12) 
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO WITHDRAW THE REGISTRATION OF A HEALTH 
PRODUCT OR TECHNOLOGY 
Date 
Month  
Year 
 
 
 
TYPE OF MEDICAL PRODUCT OR HEALTH TECHNOLOGY 
  
  
  
  
  
Human 
health 
product 
Veterinary 
health product 
Herbal product Parallel product 
Medical device 
PRODUCT DETAILS 
Certificate of registration No. 
 
Name of product 
 
Strength 
 
Dosage/pharmaceutical form 
 
Certificate of registration holder 
 
 
DETAILS OF CONTACT PERSON 
Name 
 
Address 
 
Telephone No. 
 
E-Mail Address 
 
REASON FOR WITHDRAWAL 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE 
Date 
Name 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
705 
 
FORM 7                                                                                           
(r. 15(2))  
APPLICATION FOR COMPASSIONATE USE OF HEALTH PRODUCT AND 
TECHNOLOGIES 
Date 
 
Application No. 
 
Active 
substance[s]: 
 
Orphan indication 
 
 
1. Description of the condition under which the HPT is to be used 
1.1. Details of the condition 
1.1.1 Definition 
1.1.2 Aetiology 
1.1.3 
Specific 
characteristics; 
pathophysiological, 
histopathological, 
clinical 
characteristics 
1.1.4. Classification 
1.1.5 Diagnosis and symptoms 
1.2. Proposed indication 
1.3. Medical plausibility 
1.3.1. Active substance: description of the medicinal product, pharmacological class and 
mode of action 
1.3.2. Plausibility of the condition; data with the specific product as applied for 
designation in specific models or in patients affected the condition  
1.4. Justification of the life-threatening or debilitating nature of the condition 
2. Prevalence of the condition 
2.1. Prevalence of the disease or condition in the Kenya 
2.2. Prevalence and incidence of the condition in the Kenya 
3. Other methods for diagnosis, prevention or treatment of the condition 
3.1. Details of any existing diagnosis, prevention or treatment methods 
3.2. Justification as to why methods are not satisfactory (Applicable/Not applicable. 
(Delete as appropriate) 
(Note that sections 3.2 and 3.3 are mutually exclusive.) 
3.3. Justification of significant benefit 
Applicable/Not applicable. (Delete as appropriate) 
4. Description of the stage of development 
4.1. Summary of the development of the product 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
706 
4.1.1 Quality aspects 
4.1.2 Non-clinical aspects 
4.1.3 Proof-of concept in relevant model 
4.1.4 Pharmacology 
4.1.5 Pharmacokinetics 
4.1.6 Toxicology 
4.1.7 Clinical aspects 
4.1.8 Pharmacokinetics 
4.1.9 Pharmacodynamics 
4.1.10 Clinical efficacy 
4.1.11 Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
4.1.12 Clinical studies in applied condition 
4.1.13 Planned clinical studies 
4.1.14 Clinical safety 
4.1.15 Adverse events 
4.1.16 Serious adverse events and deaths 
4.2. Details of current regulatory status and marketing history in the Kenya and other 
countries 
5. Applicant’s position: 
(Please delete any paragraph above that does not apply.)  
 
FORM 8                                                                                         
(r. 16(3)) 
 
Application Form for Unregistered Health Product and Technologies 
 
<Date> 
 
Application No. 
   
Active 
substance[s]: 
  
 
Orphan indication 
   
1. Description of the condition under which the HPT is to be used 
1.1. Details of the condition 
 
Definition 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
707 
 
 
Aetiology 
 
Specific characteristics; pathophysiological, histopathological, clinical characteristics 
 
Classification 
 
Diagnosis and symptoms 
 
1.2. Proposed indication 
 
1.3. Medical plausibility 
1.3.1. Active substance: description of the medicinal product, pharmacological class and 
mode of action 
 
1.3.2. Plausibility of the condition; data with the specific product as applied for 
designation in specific models or in patients affected the condition  
 
1.4. Justification of the life-threatening or debilitating nature of the condition 
 
2. Prevalence of the condition 
2.1. Prevalence of the disease or condition in the Kenya 
 
2.2. Prevalence and incidence of the condition in the Kenya 
 
3. Other methods for diagnosis, prevention or treatment of the condition 
3.1. Details of any existing diagnosis, prevention or treatment methods 
 
3.2. Justification as to why methods are not satisfactory 
 or Not applicable. (delete as appropriate) 
Note that sections 3.2 and 3.3 are mutually exclusive. 
3.3. Justification of significant benefit 
 or Not applicable. (delete as appropriate) 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
 
 
708 
4. Description of the stage of development 
4.1. Summary of the development of the product 
 
Quality aspects 
Non-clinical aspects 
Proof-of concept in relevant model 
Pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
Toxicology 
Clinical aspects 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacodynamics 
Clinical efficacy 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
Clinical studies in applied condition 
Planned clinical studies 
Clinical safety 
Adverse events 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
4.2. Details of current regulatory status and marketing history in the Kenya and other 
countries 
Applicant’s position: 
Please delete any paragraph above that does not apply.  
 
 
 
 
 
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2022 
709 
 
SECOND SCHEDULE   (r. 4(3)(l)), 8(3)(b), 14(4)(d), 15(4)(c), 16(5)(h)) 
FEES 
 
Purpose of Fees 
Amount 
(USD.) 
1. Application for registration of health product not manufactured in 
Kenya.  
1,000.00 
2. Application for registration of health product manufactured in 
Kenya.  
500.00 
3. Application for renewal of registration of health product not 
manufactured in Kenya.  
1,000.00 
4. Application for renewal of registration of health product 
manufactured in Kenya.  
500.00 
5. Application for Fast tracking Evaluation of applications for Health 
product not manufactured in Kenya 
2,000.00 
6. Application for donated health products 
0 
7. Application for Issuance of Emergency Use Authorization for a 
Medical Devices and In-Vitro Diagnostic  
2,500.00 
8. Application for registration of Class A Medical Device  
100.00 
9. Application for registration of Class B Medical Device 
200.00 
10. Application for registration of Class C Medical Device 
1,000.00 
11. Application for registration Class D Medical Device 
1,000.00 
12. Application for renewal of a Class A Medical Device  
100.00 
13. Application for renewal of a Class B Medical Device  
200.00 
 
Purpose of Fees 
Amount 
(USD.) 
14. Application for renewal of a Class C Medical Device 
1,000.00 
15. Application for renewal of a Class D Medical Device 
1,000.00 
16. Application for registration of health product not manufactured in
Kenya. (Food Supplement, Cosmetics and Borderline Products) 
500.00 
17. Application for registration of health product manufactured in
Kenya. (Food Supplement, Cosmetics and Borderline Products) 
100.00 
18. Application for renewal of registration of health product not
manufactured in Kenya. (Food Supplement, Cosmetics and
Borderline Products) 
500.00 
19. Application for renewal of registration of health product
manufactured in Kenya. (Food Supplement, Cosmetics and
Borderline Products) 
100.00 
20. Application for registration of health product  
(Traditional Health Products – Locally Manufactured) 
50.00 
21. Application for renewal of registration/listing of health products
(Traditional Health Products – Locally Manufactured) 
20.00 
Made on the 8th June, 2022. 
MUTAHI KAGWE, 
Cabinet Secretary for Health. 
  
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE GOVERNMENT PRINTER, NAIROBI 
