1 
 
HPT/PER/GUD/027 
Rev No.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
PHARMACY AND POISONS BOARD 
 
 
 
GUIDELINES FOR REGISTRATION OF HERBAL PRODUCTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 2022 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The author of this document is the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, a State 
Corporation under the Ministry of Health, Republic of Kenya. It may be reproduced 
or adopted on condition that the recommended citation below is made. 
 
 
©Pharmacy and Poisons Board, 2022 
 
All rights reserved: 
 
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or 
transmitted in any form, or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, 
recording, scanning, or otherwise, without the prior permission in writing from the 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board. 
 
P. O. Box 27663 00506 Lenana Road Opposite Russian Embassy Nairobi, 
Tel: +254-02-12345/6789, Fax: +254-02-12345, 
Website: www.Pharmacyboardkenya.org.ke, 
Email:info@pharmacyboardkenya.org. 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
Table of Contents 
1. 
ABBREVIATIONS..................................................................................................................................... 3 
PRIMS- Pharmaceutical Regulatory Information Management System.............................................. 3 
2. 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS .......................................................................................................................... 3 
3. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS ........................................................................................................................ 3 
4. 
INTRODUCTION ...................................................................................................................................... 4 
5. 
LANGUAGE ............................................................................................................................................... 7 
6. 
PAYMENT OF FEES ................................................................................................................................ 7 
Application for Retention of Products registered in Kenya ................................................................................. 8 
Verification of compliance to current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) ................................................. 8 
7. 
TIMELINES ............................................................................................................................................... 9 
8. 
SPECIFIC TECHNICAL INFORMATION ............................................................................................. 9 
8.1 
PARTICULARS OF THE APPLICANT ............................................................................................................. 9 
8.2 
PARTICULARS OF THE PRODUCT.............................................................................................................. 10 
8.3 
PARTICULARS OF THE MANUFACTURER ............................................................................................... 11 
8.4. COMPOSITION OF PRODUCT ............................................................................................................................ 12 
8.5. QUALITY CONTROL OF RAW MATERIALS ................................................................................................... 13 
8.6 
QUALITY CONTROL OF THE FINISHED PRODUCT ............................................................................... 16 
8.7 
STABILITY STUDIES OF THE FINISHED PRODUCT.............................................................................. 19 
8.8 
PHARMACOLOGICAL AND TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION ............................................................ 20 
DECLARATION BY AN APPLICANT .......................................................................................................................... 21 
 
 
 
3 
 
1. ABBREVIATIONS 
PRIMS- Pharmaceutical Regulatory Information Management System 
DPER- Directorate of Product Evaluation and Registration 
PPB-Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
cGMP- Current Good Manufacturing Practices. 
 
2. GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
The definition of a Herbal and Complimentary Medicine means any substance or 
mixture of substances that: 
a. 
Originates from plants, fungi, algae, seaweeds, lichens, minerals, animals 
or other substance as determined by the Board, and  
b. 
is used or purporting to be suitable for use or manufactured or sold for 
use 
c. 
to diagnose, treat, mitigate, modify, alleviate or prevent disease or illness 
or the symptoms or signs thereof or abnormal physical or mental state, 
of a human being or animal. 
 
3. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
The CEO, Pharmacy and Poisons Board would like to thank the following persons for 
their comments and contributions to the development of this guideline. 
 
CONTRIBUTORS: 
Dr. Edwin Burugu, Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Drug Product Evaluation 
and Registration (DPER) Department Directorate of Health Products and 
Technologies 
 
REVIEWERS 
Dr. Ronald Inyangala, Deputy-Director, Senior Principal Regulatory Officer, Drug 
Product Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department, HPT 
Dr. Peter Mbwiiri Ikamati Chief Principal Regulatory officer, Drug Product Evaluation 
and Registration (DPER) Department, Directorate of Health Products and 
Technologies 
Dr. Jonathan Meriakol, Senior Principal Regulatory officer, Drug Product Evaluation 
 
4 
 
and Registration (DPER) Department, Directorate of Health Products and 
Technologies 
Dr. Ali Arale, Principal Regulatory Officer, Drug Product Evaluation and Registration 
(DPER) Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
Dr. James Owuor, Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Drug Product Evaluation 
and Registration (DPER) Department, Directorate of Health Products and 
Technologies 
Dr. Paulyne Wairimu, Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer Product Evaluation and 
Registration (PER)  (MD&IVDs) Department, Directorate of Health Products and 
Technologies  
Dr. Eugene Odame, Senior Regulatory officer, Product Evaluation and Registration 
(PER)  (MD&IVDs), Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologies  
Dr. Sarah Chebet Chesaro, Principal Regulatory officer, Drug Product Evaluation and 
Registration (DPER) Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
Mr. Alex Mutai,  Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Blood and Blood Products 
Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
Ms. Jacqueline Yahuma , Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Cosmetics 
Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
Mr. Henry Chweya, Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Border line Products 
Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
Mr. Peter Mugala, Senior Information and Communication Technology Officer; Drug 
Product Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department, Directorate of Health 
Products and Technologies 
Mr. Anthony Kemboi, Information and Communication Technology Officer; Drug 
Product Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department, Directorate of Health 
Products and Technologies 
Mr. Victor Kipchumba, Information and Communication Technology Officer Medical 
Devices Department Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
 
4. INTRODUCTION 
i. 
Background 
This guideline presents a common format for presentation of a well-structured 
application for registration of herbal/complementary medicines to be submitted 
 
5 
 
to  Pharmacy  and  Poisons  Board. This format of technical documentation will 
significantly reduce the time and resources needed to compile applications for 
registration of herbal and  complementary products and  will  in future ease  the 
preparation of electronic submissions. This guideline  will  ensure that only good 
quality, safe  and efficacious herbal and complementary products are  available  
in Kenya; and to contribute towards their accessibility, cost effectiveness and 
appropriate use with the current state of knowledge. 
This guideline has been drawn to address the many issues on the quality  of  
herbal  and  complementary medicines that have been used for a long period of 
time in Kenya. These  issues include; 
a) 
Misconception amongst herbalists that documentation requested for by 
PPB is  intended to  steal their indigenous  knowledge  and  thus,  there  
has  been  hesitation  to  submit applications. 
b) 
Lack of documented evidence on quality, safety & efficacy of Herbal and 
complementary products 
c) 
Unethical practices that include: 
▪ Adulteration of herbal and complementary products with conventional 
medicines 
▪ Advertising of Herbal and complementary products in print media, 
electronic and bill boards 
▪ Peddling of products with no therapeutic benefits 
▪ Unsubstantiated medicinal claims by herbal practitioners. 
▪ Dealing with herbal products whose toxicological profile is not known 
d) 
Poor standards of preparation/manufacture and sale of herbal and 
complementary products 
 
This guideline will focus on the manufacture and registration of herbal  and  
complementary medicines. This guideline applies only to herbal and 
complementary products. In the case of other medicinal products such as 
conventional and borderline products, separate guidelines are available and 
these 
can 
be 
obtained 
from 
PPB 
offices. 
This 
guideline 
provides 
recommendations for applicants preparing application for herbal and 
complementary products for submission to the Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
 
6 
 
(PPB).This guideline prescribes the minimum information required for 
submission of dossiers, evaluation of products, variation of products and 
retention of registered products.  
This guideline indicates an appropriate format and organization of the data. 
Applicants are requested to carefully read this guideline, fill in application form, 
prepare dossiers and submit them online through the Pharmaceutical Regulatory 
Information Management System (PRIMS)   
 
 
ii. 
The Legal Framework/Responsibility for Implementation 
The Board is statutorily empowered to undertake various duties in execution of its 
mandate regarding regulation of health products and health technologies. 
The regulation for the evaluation of health product and technologies is governed 
under the provisions of the Pharmacy and Poisons Act, Cap 244 Laws of Kenya. 
 
iii. 
Scope 
This guideline primarily addresses the organization of the information to be 
presented in registration of herbal products. It is intended to provide an 
appropriate format for submission of data for registration. Applicants should not 
modify the overall organization of the document as outlined in the guideline.  
 
 
 
7 
 
 
5. LANGUAGE 
All applications and supporting documents shall be in English and legible. 
Where material is not originally in English, a copy in the original language and 
a full translation should be submitted, the accuracy of which is the 
responsibility of the applicant. Authentication of the translation has to be done 
at the nearest Kenyan Embassy or by the national drug regulatory authority of 
the country from where the document originates. Reports submitted only in a 
language other than English will not be accepted 
For purposes of submission to PPB, an application for registration of herbal 
and complementary product shall include: 
i. 
Application through the electronic format available on PRIMS  
(including their supporting documents - see Annex I (Application 
online) 
ii. 
Three (3) samples of  the smallest commercial pack(s) from  one batch 
with batch certificates  of analysis. 
iii. 
A site master file in case the product is manufactured at a plant(s) not 
inspected and approved by PPB. 
iv. 
Non-refundable application fee for registration of medicines in Kenya 
and GMP inspection fees for facilities not yet inspected by PPB 
 
6. 
PAYMENT OF FEES 
Every application shall be accompanied by appropriate fees at the time  of  
application.  Any application that will not be accompanied by appropriate fees 
will not be accepted. Mode of Payment: Payments by crossed or bankers’ 
cheque shall be made payable to Pharmacy And Poisons Board.  
 
Application for registration of herbal and complementary products: 
Products imported into Kenya 
US$ 1000 
Locally manufactured in Kenya 
US$ 200  
 
 
 
8 
 
GMP inspection fee: 
Foreign Companies  
US$ 4000  
Local Companies  
Nil 
Application for Variation of products:  
Products imported into Kenya 
  
 
US$ 200  
Locally manufactured in Kenya 
  
 
US$ 100  
Application for Retention of Products registered in Kenya 
Products Imported into Kenya. 
  
 
US$ 300 
Products manufactured in Kenya. 
  
 
US$ 100 
 
If an application for renewal is made after the expiration of the period of validity of 
the certificate of registration the application shall be considered as a fresh 
application - see annex I (Retention) 
 
Appeal fee: With respect to an appeal to an original application, a fee of US$ 300 
must be paid at the time of appeal. Any appeal that will not be accompanied by 
appropriate fees will not be accepted. 
 
Other Charges: The Pharmacy and Poisons Board may, at its own discretion,  
charge  an applicant  such costs as it may incur for carrying out any laboratory 
investigations prior to the registration of a product. 
 
Verification of compliance to current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) 
If the new application is from a new manufacturing site,  PPB will conduct 
inspection of the site or   use other means to verify whether the facility complies 
with current Good Manufacturing Practices Regulations before a product is 
registered. No product shall be registered unless the plant complies  with cGMP. 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
Inspection of a facility for the purposes of considering applications for renewal of 
registration shall be done and if the facility is found not to comply with cGMP, 
registration of all products manufactured by the facility shall be withdrawn. 
 
7. TIMELINES 
The Board will implement the following timelines in processing applications for 
marketing authorization of herbal and complementary products. 
Complete applications will be processed within (180 working days of receiving 
the application including evaluation of documentation and consideration by a 
committee on drug registration. 
 
WITHDRAWAL OF AN APPLICATION 
When the applicant fails to submit written responses to queries within  6 months  
from the  date  of their issuance, it will be deemed that the applicant has 
withdrawn the application or if the queries have been reissued for a second time 
and the applicant provides unsatisfactory responses, the product will be 
disqualified and the application will be rejected. The applicant will  be  required 
to apply  afresh. 
 
VALIDITY OF REGISTRATION 
The registration of herbal and complementary products shall be valid for One 
Year from the Date of registration unless earlier suspended or revoked by PPB or 
withdrawn by applicant. The Board will give reasons in writing when it suspends 
or revokes, or amends conditions of registration. Likewise the applicant shall also 
give reasons for terminating registration of a product. 
 
8. 
SPECIFIC TECHNICAL INFORMATION 
8.1 PARTICULARS OF THE APPLICANT 
a. 
The Applicant:  
 
The application for the registration of herbal and complementary 
products shall be made only by: 
• The License/patent holder 
• The manufacturer 
 
10 
 
• An authorized Local Technical Representative (LTR) of the manufacturer 
or License/patent holder 
• The name, physical address, telephone number, fax number, and e-mail 
address of the applicant shall be provided 
b. 
Name of the Local Technical Representative (for imported products only) 
Every applicant who is not resident in Kenya shall appoint ONE local 
technical representative who must be a company incorporated in Kenya and 
authorized by PPB to deal in herbal and complementary products and must 
hold a wholesale dealers License. 
Evidence shall be made by submitting a power of attorney that complies 
with Kenyan laws. The local technical representative shall be responsible 
for facilitating communication with the applicant and when the product 
is registered, he shall assume all legal responsibilities regarding the 
product on the Kenyan market. 
 
8.2 PARTICULARS OF THE PRODUCT 
a. 
Product Name shall mean the (trade or brand) name which is unique to a 
particular drug and by which it is generally identified (and by which it is 
registered in the country of manufacture). The applicant may provide 
evidence from Kenya Industrial Property Institute, KIPI, in regard to the 
requirements for registration of Trademarks. 
b. 
Dosage form of the product shall mean the form in which the drug is 
presented – a macerate, infusions, ashes, decoctions, tablet, capsule, 
solution, suspension, emulsion, ointment, suppository etc. Strength of 
the product shall be given per unit dosage form or per specified quantity: 
e.g.  mg per tablet, mg per capsule, mg/ml, mg per 5ml spoonful, mg per 
g, etc. 
c. 
Therapeutic use(s) shall mean the intended use should be only the major 
indication(s) 
the 
product 
may 
be 
multi-component 
with 
other 
pharmacological properties but the application should be restricted to the 
intended use. 
d. 
Visual 
description 
of 
the 
product 
shall 
mean 
a 
full 
description/appearance of the herbal or complementary product 
 
11 
 
including color, size, shape and other relevant features, e.g. green 
powder, brown liquid, pink film-coated tablets etc. 
e. 
Type of container: The applicant should state the type of the primary 
package in which the herbal or complementary product is presented e.g. 
in HDPE bottles, Aluminum Sachets etc. 
f. 
Pack size(s) shall mean the presentation of the product to be registered 
i.e. list all pack sizes intended for marketing. 
g. 
Proposed Shelf life (in months) shall mean the specified length of time 
prior to use for which a herbal or complementary product is deemed to 
remain fit for use under prescribed conditions supported by stability 
studies given in section 7 
h. 
Storage conditions: The proposed storage conditions should be indicated 
on the label and supported by stability studies given in section 7. 
i. 
Country of origin shall mean the country of manufacture or production, 
of the herbal or complementary product to be registered or country of 
product release. 
j. 
Status of registration of the product in the country of origin, 
authorization/registration number requires the applicant to provide the 
regulatory situation of the herbal or complementary product to be 
registered in the country of origin and other countries. List the countries 
in which this product: 
k. 
Has been granted a marketing authorization. (Attach certificate of 
pharmaceutical product from the registering Authority) 
l. 
Has been withdrawn from any market; 
m. 
Where an application for marketing in any country has  been  rejected,  
suspended, deferred or withdrawn. 
 
8.3 PARTICULARS OF THE MANUFACTURER 
a. 
Name of the Manufacturer shall mean the name, physical address, 
telephone number, fax number, and e-mail address of the site of 
manufacture shall be provided. Where different activities of manufacture 
of a given product are carried out at different manufacturing sites, the 
above particulars shall be provided for each site and the activity carried 
 
12 
 
out at the particular site shall be stated as shown in the table below. 
 
Name of the 
Manufacturer 
Full Physical address of 
the 
Manufacturing Site 
Activity at the site 
 
 
 
 
b. 
GMP status of the manufacturing site 
If the new application is from a new manufacturing site, PPB will conduct 
inspection of the site or use other means to verify whether the facility 
complies with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) Regulations 
and/or guidelines. 
 
8.4. COMPOSITION OF PRODUCT  
List all active ingredient(s) and all non-active ingredient(s) used 
(i) 
Scientific or Botanical Name of the plant(s): Name in Latin (genus and 
species) of the plant species and family e.g. Catharanthus roseus 
(Apocynaceae), Azandiracta indica (Meliaceae) 
(ii) 
The common name or synonym is the English name. Where not known 
the local vernacular name may be used e.g. Madagascar periwinkle 
(Catharanthus roseus), Neem Tree (“Muarubaini” - Azandiracta indica) 
(iii) 
Part of Plant used: The part used should be specified e.g. leaf, root, bark, 
etc. 
(iv) 
Specification (USP, BP, or In house): The minimum range of specifications 
for the active ingredient(s) should be as given in recognized 
pharmacopoeias. Where the material is part of an established monograph 
then the material must comply with  requirements of  the monograph. 
Where the plant material is not subject to any established monograph the 
applicant must indicate in detail of all tests used to characterize the 
material with limits as relevant. 
(v) 
Quantity per dosage unit: The strength of the product shall be given per 
unit dosage form or per specified quantity: e.g. mg per tablet, mg per 
capsule, mg/ml, mg per 5ml spoonful, mg    per g, etc. 
 
13 
 
(vi) 
Chemical Constituent(s): For each of the active constituent(s) listed (e.g. 
Catharanthus roseus), indicate the major chemical compounds where 
known e.g. vincristine, or where not known major group of compounds 
e.g. indole alkaloids. 
(vii) 
Reason for inclusion: Where a material is included and is not the active 
ingredient indicate the purpose of its inclusion such as sugar as sweeter, 
honey as preservative. 
The information should be presented as shown in the tables below; 
i. 
List all active ingredient(s) used 
 
Scientific/
Botanical 
Name 
Common 
Name or 
Synonym 
Part of 
Plant 
used 
Specification 
 
Quantity per 
dosage 
unit 
Chemical 
Constituent(s) 
 
ii. 
List all non-active ingredient(s) used 
 
Scientific
/Botanic
al Name 
Common 
Name or 
Synonym 
Part 
of 
Plant 
used  
Specification Quantity per 
dosage unit 
Reason for 
inclusion 
 
8.5. QUALITY CONTROL OF RAW MATERIALS 
 
a. 
Botanical identification of the Plant used 
b. 
Botanical name shall mean the name in Latin (genus and species) of the 
plant species and family e.g. Catharanthus roseus (Apocynaceae), 
Azandiracta indica (Meliaceae). The local name of the plant should be 
supplied in addition to a herbarium specimen (Voucher number) verified 
by the National museums of Kenya Herbarium, University of Nairobi 
herbarium, or any other recognized herbarium should be provided. For 
imported herbal or complementary products, a certificate of identification 
should be supplied from recognized herbarium. 
c. 
Brief description of the living plant 
 
14 
 
 
A brief description of the living plant, this may include photographs 
and/or drawings, general appearance and organoleptic properties 
d. 
Macroscopic identification 
 
This is based on shape, size color, surface characteristics, texture,  
fracture  characteristics,  appearance of cut surface e.g. for a leaf: 
Oblong, green coloured leaf, hairy, brittle etc. 
e. 
Microscopic identification 
 
This shall mean the structural features of the part of the plant to 
identify the diagnostic features e.g. Leaf – type of stomata, cell 
inclusions etc. 
f. 
Geographical source of the plant used 
       It the country of origin and the region where the plant is collected, 
cultivated or wild natural distribution 
g. 
Harvesting and collection of the plant 
       The method of collection of plant materials from cultivated or wild 
sources should be described including stage of plant development, time 
and season. The measures used to control adulteration of the plant 
material also should be described. 
 
 
h. 
Method of drying 
 
 
The method used for drying the plant material should be described and 
justified. 
i. 
Storage and preservation of plant material 
 
 
The method used for storage and preservation of the plant material should 
be described and justified. 
j. 
Evaluation of plant materials 
k. 
Purity tests 
           The following purity tests must be done: 
• 
Microbiological tests should be described to demonstrate the absence of 
pathogenic micro- organisms (e.g. E. coli, P. aeroginosa, S aureus and 
Salmonella spp etc.) 
• 
Microbial load test (Pharmacopoeial limits) 
 
15 
 
• 
Swelling index (where applicable) 
• 
Pesticide residues (where applicable) 
• 
Heavy metals (Mercury, Arsenic and Lead) 
• 
Loss on drying (where applicable) 
• 
Determination of ash value (where applicable) 
• 
Other purity tests (where applicable) 
Qualitative and quantitative tests of the plant materials 
These should be expressed in the following ways: 
Medicinal plant material: 
i. 
The quantity of plant material must be stated; or 
ii. 
The quantity of plant material may be given as a range, corresponding 
to a defined quantity of constituents of known therapeutic activity. 
Example: Name of active ingredient Quantity 
Sennae folium (a) 900 mg or (b) 830–1000 mg, corresponding to 25 mg of 
hydroxyanthracene glycosides, calculated as sennoside B 
Plant preparation: 
 
 
 
16 
 
 
i. 
The equivalent quantity or the ratio of plant material to plant 
preparation must be stated (this does not apply to fatty or essential 
oils); or 
ii. 
The quantity of the plant preparation may be given as a range, 
corresponding to a defined quantity of constituents with known 
therapeutic activity (see example). 
 
The composition of any solvent or solvent mixture used and the physical state of 
the extract must be indicated. If any other substance is added during the 
manufacture of the plant preparation to adjust the level of constituents of known 
therapeutic activity, or for any other purpose, the  added  substance(s) must be 
described as “other ingredients” and the genuine extract as the  “active 
ingredient”. 
Example: Name of active ingredient Quantity 
Sennae folium (a) 125 mg ethanolic  extract (8:1) or 125 mg ethanolic extract, 
equivalent to 1000 mg  of Sennae folium or (b) 100–130 mg ethanolic extract 
(8:1), corresponding to 25 mg of hydroxyanthracene glycosides, calculated as 
sennoside B 
Other ingredient 
Dextrose 20–50 mg 
The determination of the presence of active components and quantity should be 
described in detail 
▪ 
Determination of extractable value (where applicable) 
▪ 
For example Datura stramonium: the test of presence of alkaloids and the 
amount of atropine 
 
8.6 
QUALITY CONTROL OF THE FINISHED PRODUCT 
8.6.1. Specification of the Finished Product:  
The minimum range of specifications for the finished products 
should be as given in recognized pharmacopoeias. 
a. 
Microbiological contamination and tests for other toxins 
b. 
Uniformity of weight (for tablets, single-dose powders, suppositories,  
 
17 
 
herbal tea  in sachets  and capsules, etc.), disintegration time (for 
tablets,  capsules,  suppositories  and  pills), hardness and friability 
(for example, uncoated tablets), viscosity (for internal and external 
fluids), consistency (semisolid preparations), and dissolution (tablets 
or  capsules),  if applicable. 
c. 
Physical appearance such as color, odor, form, shape, size and texture 
d. 
Loss on drying or water content 
e. 
Identity tests, qualitative determination of relevant substances of the 
plants (e.g. fingerprint chromatograms) 
f. 
Quantification of relevant active ingredients if they are identified and 
the adequate analytical methods are available 
g. 
Limit tests for residual solvents 
 
8.6.2. Brief Description of the Manufacturing Procedure and In Process Quality 
Controls 
 
This section will include a description of the manufacturing process  
and packaging.  A summary of the method of manufacture and 
packaging should include: 
a. 
Equipment used in the manufacture of the product 
b. 
The outline of the manufacturing process, in form of a chart, 
indicating the critical points for in-process controls. 
c. 
For products that require special environmental conditions, this 
information must be provided. 
d. 
Provide batch manufacturing records and batch packaging records 
for the samples submitted with the application form. 
e. 
The description of the analytical control procedures and the 
frequency with which they are performed during the manufacturing 
process should be made. This refers to parameter at critical stage 
points during manufacturing to confirm that the processes are 
conforming with expected values. 
 
8.6.3 
Analysis of the Finished Product 
Details of the test methods described here should be those applied 
 
18 
 
to confirm compliance with specifications listed under section 6.1 
attaching the certificate of analysis from an independent recognized 
quality control laboratory 
The control tests for the finished product must be such as to allow 
the qualitative and quantitative determination of the active 
ingredients. If the therapeutic activity of constituents is known, this 
must  be specified and determined quantitatively. When this is not 
feasible, specifications must be based on the determination of 
markers. If either the final product or the preparation contains 
several plant materials and a quantitative determination of each 
active ingredient is not feasible, the combined content of several 
active ingredients may be determined. The need for such a procedure 
must be justified. 
 
8.6.4  Packaging and Labeling of the Finished Product (include package 
insert) 
The print size and color should be legible and in English or Kiswahili.  
The product label should have the following: 
a) 
Name of the product 
b) 
Composition: The quantitative list of main active ingredients 
including the common English name of the relevant plants. If the 
product is imported, plant name should be mentioned along with 
botanical name 
c) 
Dosage form 
d) 
Pack size 
e) 
Name of manufacturer and physical address of the manufacturing site 
f) 
Lot/Batch number 
g) 
Manufacture date and expiry date 
h) 
Storage conditions 
 
8.6.5  Packaging and Labelling Requirements 
This should contain the following information in English: 
a) 
Name and description of the product 
 
19 
 
b) 
Composition: 
c) 
Pharmacological properties, where information is available 
d) 
Therapeutic indications 
e) 
Dosage: the minimum and maximum as well as average dosage 
levels, must be stated (if appropriate, specified for children and the 
elderly). 
f) 
Contraindications/precautions, Interactions and Cautions/warnings 
g) 
Withdrawals periods for veterinary herbal and complementary products 
h) 
Name and address of the manufacturer 
i) 
Overdose and treatment 
j) 
Adverse reactions 
k) 
Special considerations e.g. vaginal, rectal, and urethral preparations 
l) 
Storage conditions. 
m) 
Main vehicle/base 
 
8.7 
STABILITY STUDIES OF THE FINISHED PRODUCT 
The physical and chemical stability of the product in the marketing 
container should be determined under defined storage conditions to support 
the shelf-life. This section should include a summary of the studies 
undertaken (environmental conditions, batches, analytical procedures) and 
a brief discussion of the results and conclusions, the proposed storage 
conditions or shelf-life. Long term stability studies should follow ICH 
guidelines. 
 
 
 
20 
 
8.8 PHARMACOLOGICAL AND TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION  
The applicant should provide information on: 
• 
Safety of The Product 
• 
Ethno-medical information (Literature search) 
• 
Pharmacological properties including the desirable and undesirable 
effects associated with the use of  the herbal or complementary product 
including 
Adverse/Side 
Effects, 
Contraindications, 
Warning 
and 
precautions 
• 
Efficacy studies of the product 
• 
Dosage regimen: Therapeutic prescribed amount of the medicine to be 
administered to  the patient. The measures and age group should be 
included. 
• 
The onset and duration of  effect to support the proposed route of 
administration and frequency  of dosage of the medicinal product should 
be provided 
• 
Pharmacotoxicological Studies: The applicant should provide a report on 
pharmacotoxicological data which should include pharmacological 
activity, acute, sub-acute, chronic and sub-chronic tests. 
• 
The pharmacotoxicological test reports should be submitted from but not 
limited to any of the under listed institutions: 
(i) 
Kenya Medical Research Institute 
(ii) 
University of Nairobi, School of Pharmacy and Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine
 
21 
 
DECLARATION BY AN APPLICANT 
The declaration must be signed, dated and authenticated by an Official stamp.  
No Applications will  be evaluated without authenticated declaration. 
 
 KEY REFERENCE DOCUMENTS 
 
a) 
World Health Organization (WHO) Guidance on variations to a prequalified 
product dossier. 
b) 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board (PPB) Guidance on Retention of Product 
 
Addendum 1 
GUIDANCE FOR APPLICATION OF VARIATIONS TO A PRODUCT: 
The following is a matrix table on the expected timelines to be followed when applying 
for Retention of Registered Herbal Products through the PRIMS system online 
 
Current process 
Timeline 
Output 
Receive 
manual 
applications  
Upto Dec 2021 
Receiving of variation applications using 
the table 
Projected 
Automated 
process 
development 
for 
Application 
of 
Variation 
Upto Dec 2022 
Evaluation of variation using PPB PRIMS 
system 
 
Addendum 2 
GUIDANCE FOR APPLICATION OF RETENTION FOR REGISTERED PRODUCTS: 
The following is a matrix table on the expected timelines to be followed when applying 
for Retention of Registered Herbal Products through the PRIMS system online 
 
 
 
 
Current process 
Timeline 
Output 
Receive 
manual 
applications  
Upto Dec 2021 
Receiving 
of 
variation 
applications 
using the table 
 
22 
 
Projected 
Automated 
process development for 
Application of Variation 
Upto Dec 2022 
Evaluation of variation using PPB 
PRIMS system 
 
23 
 
ANNEX I 
SCHEDULE 
(r.4) 
Form 1 
APPLICATION FORM FOR REGISTRATION OF HERBAL AND 
COMPLEMENTARY MEDICINE (Complentary and Alternative Medicine) 
(to be submitted in one hard copy and one electronic copy on a CD-ROM) 
 
CONFIDENTIAL 
The CEO, 
Pharmacy and Poisons 
Board, P. O. Box 
27663-00506, 
Lenana road, 
NAIROBI. 
 
Application Number 
Date of submission of the 
dossier 
1ST Evaluator 
Name 
Signature 
2ND Evaluator 
Name 
Signature 
Date of 1st evaluation 
Date of 2nd Evaluation 
Number of volumes of files 
received 
1. PARTICULARS OF THE APPLICANT 
1.1 
Name of the Applicant, Physical Address, 
Telephone, Fax and Email 
1.2 
Name of the Local Technical Representative (for 
imported products only), Physical Address, 
Telephone, Fax and Email 
2. PARTICULARS OF THE PRODUCT 
2.1 
Product Name of the product 
2.2 
Dosage form and strength of the product 
2.3 
Therapeutic use(s) of the product 
2.4 
Visual description of the product 
2.5 
Type of container of the product 
2.6 
Pack size(s) of the product 
2.7 
Proposed Shelf life (in months) of the product 
2.8 
Storage conditions of the product 
2.9 
Country of origin of the product 
 
24 
 
2.10 Status of registration of the product in the country of 
origin, authorization/registration number (attach 
Certificate of Pharmaceutical product) 
3. PARTICULARS OF THE MANUFACTURER 
3.1 
Name of the Manufacturer, Physical Address of the 
manufacturing site, Telephone, Fax and Email 
 
25 
 
3.2 GMP status of the manufacturing site 
4. COMPOSITION OF THE PRODUCT 
4.3 List all active ingredient(s) used 
4.4 List all non-active ingredient(s) used 
5. QUALITY CONTROL OF RAW MATERIALS 
5.1 Botanical identification of the Plant used 
5.1.1 Botanical name 
5.1.2 Brief description of the living plant 
5.1.3 Macroscopic identification 
5.1.4 Microscopic identification 
5.2 Geographical source of the plant used 
5.3 Harvesting of the plant 
5.3.1 Stage of plant during harvesting 
5.3.2 Time of harvesting 
5.3.3 Season of harvesting 
5.4 Method of drying 
5.5 Storage of plant materials 
5.6 Evaluation of plant materials 
5.6.1 Purity Tests to include likely adulterants e.g. 
soil, pesticides, 
radioactive contamination, microbiological 
limits, animal droppings, other plant parts, 
heavy metals etc. 
5.6.2 Qualitative and quantitative tests of the plant 
materials 
6. QUALITY CONTROL OF THE FINISHED PRODUCT 
6.1 Specification of the Finished Product 
6.2 Brief Description of the manufacturing 
procedure and in process quality 
controls (attach batch manufacturing records) 
 
Scientific or 
Botanical 
Name 
Common 
Name or 
Synonym 
Part of Plant 
used 
Specification 
(USP, BP, or In 
house) 
Quantity 
per dosage 
unit 
Chemical 
Constituent(s) 
Scientific or 
Botanical 
Name 
Common Name 
or Synonym 
Part of Plant 
used (where 
applicable) 
Specification 
Quantity 
per dosage 
unit 
Reason for 
inclusion 
 
26 
 
6.3 Analysis of the Finished Product 
6.4 Certificate Of Analysis from an Independent 
Recognized Quality 
Control Laboratory 
6.5 Packaging and Labeling of the Finished Product 
( include Package 
Insert) 
7. STABILITY STUDIES OF THE FINISHED PRODUCT 
8. PHARMACOLOGICAL AND TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION 
8.1 Safety of the Product 
8.1.1 Ethno-medical information (Literature search) 
8.1.2 Toxicity Studies 
8.2 Pharmacological Information of the Product 
8.2.1 Efficacy studies of the product 
8.2.2 Dosage regimen 
8.2.3 Adverse/Side Effects 
8.2.4 Contraindications, Warning and precautions 
Declaration by an applicant 
1. I, the undersigned certify that all the information in this form and 
accompanying documentation is correct, complete and true to the 
best of my knowledge. 
2. I further confirm that the information referred to in my application 
file is available for verification during GMP inspection. 
3. I also agree that I am obliged to follow the requirements of the 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board which are related to herbal and 
complementary medicines. 
4. I also agree that the undersigned has not marketed or advertised 
this product in Kenya and will follow the PPB requirements for 
advertisements of medicines 
5. I also agree that the undersigned will implement a 
Pharmacovigilance plan for this product in accordance with 
PPB requirements 
6. I also consent to the evaluation of information provided to the 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board. 
Name: 
………………………………………………………… 
Position in the company:
 
………………………………………………………… 
Signature and Date: ………………………………………………………… 
Official stamp: 
………………………………………………………… 
 
27 
 
OVERALL COMMENTS AND QUERIES 
Conclusion of the 
assessment 
RECOMMENDED (no 
outstanding issues) QUERY 
RAISED 
REJECTED 
(Please delete which does not apply) 
 
 
Revision History 
 
Revision 
Number  
Date 
Author/Reviewer Sections 
Amended 
Reason for change 
1.0 
August 
2021 
Burugu 
Title 
Change in title of 
the document 
 
 
 
Addendum 2 
introduced 
Addition for 
variation to a 
product 
 
 
 
Addendum 3 
Application for 
Variation 
 
 
 
List of 
Contributors  
List of contributors 
added 
2.0 
January 
2022 
Burugu 
Document 
Number 
revised 
Number designated 
as 
HPT/PER/GUD/027 
 
 
 
Citation  
Addition of opening 
and closing citations 
 
 
 
Format  
Glossary and 
Abbreviations 
addded 
 
 
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, 
or  transmitted in any form, or by any means, electronic, mechanical, 
photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, without the prior permission 
in writing from the  Pharmacy and Poisons Board. 
 
 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P. O. Box 27663 00506 Lenana Road Opposite Russian Embassy Nairobi, 
Tel: +254-02-12345/6789, Fax: +254-02-12345, 
Website: www.Pharmacyboardkenya.org.ke, 
Email:info@pharmacyboardkenya.org. 
 
