                                   HPT/PER/GUD/096 
        Revision: NO.0  
 
 
 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH 
PHARMACY AND POISONS BOARD 
 
 
 
GUIDELINE ON REGISTRATION OF HEALTH SUPPLEMENTS 
IN KENYA 
 
 
                                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
JUNE, 2025
                                
 
 
Citation 
The author of this document is the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, a State 
Corporation under the Ministry of Health, Republic of Kenya. It may be 
reproduced or adopted on the condition that the recommended citation below 
is made.  
 
Recommended citation: Republic of Kenya, Ministry of Health, Pharmacy 
and Poisons Board, Guideline on Registration of Health Supplements in Kenya 
Version number 0, 2025 
  
 
 
All rights reserved:  
©Pharmacy and Poisons Board, 2025  
For clarifications, comments, or suggestions, please contact:  
The Chief Executive Officer  
Pharmacy and Poisons Board  
P.O. Box 27663 – 00506, Nairobi  
Telephone: 0709770100  
Email: info@pharmacyboardkenya.org  
Website: www.pharmacyboardkenya.org  
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii
Table of Contents 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS ............................................................................... vii 
DEFINITION OF TERMS ................................................................................ x 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ................................................................................ xi 
LEGAL FRAMEWORK ................................................................................. xii 
FOREWORD ............................................................................................... xiii 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION ................................................................................... 1 
1.1 
Purpose ............................................................................................. 1 
1.2 
Scope and Overview .......................................................................... 1 
2.0 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS ................................................................ 3 
2.1 
Validity of registration ....................................................................... 3 
2.2 
Notification of change/ Variation ...................................................... 3 
2.3 
Compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), Good 
Laboratory Practice (GLP) ........................................................................... 3 
2.3.1 
Good Laboratory Practice (GLP): .................................................. 3 
2.3.2 
Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP): .......................................... 3 
2.4 
Food Supplement Registration fee: .................................................... 4 
2.5 
Applicant ........................................................................................... 4 
2.6 
Particulars of /food supplement ........................................................ 4 
2.7 
Requirements for Labelling of Nutritional Supplements .................... 6 
2.8 
Information leaflet ............................................................................. 8 
3.0 
TECHNICAL INFORMATION ............................................................... 11 
3.1 
COMPOSITION OF THE PRODUCT ................................................. 11 
3.2 
SUITABILITY OF THE PRODUCT AS A DIETARY SUPPLEMENT ..... 11 
3.3 
RAW MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS ................................................. 11 
3.4 
DETAILS OF THE PROCEDURES INVOLVED IN THE VARIOUS 
STAGES OF MANUFACTURE. .................................................................. 12 
 
 
 
iii
3.5 
SUMMARISED SPECIFICATIONS OF THE FINAL PRODUCT .......... 12 
3.6 
SUPPLEMENTS CONTAINING HERBAL INGREDIENT(S)................. 13 
3.7 
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE PACKAGING MATERIAL ........................ 14 
3.8 
STABILITY DATA OF THE PRODUCT. ............................................. 14 
4.0 
POST MARKET SURVEILLANCE OF FOOD/DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS
 
16 
5.0 
SAFETY AND EFFICACY REQUIREMENTS ........................................ 17 
5.1 
General ........................................................................................... 17 
5.2 
Single Substance Formulations (SSF) ............................................. 18 
5.3 
Multiple Substance Formulations ................................................... 18 
5.4 
Labelling and Allowable Claims ....................................................... 18 
5.5 
Single Substance Formulations ....................................................... 19 
5.6 
Multiple Substance Formulation (MSF) Claim Development ........... 19 
REFERENCES ............................................................................................. 22 
ANNEXURES ............................................................................................... 23 
ANNEXURE A: APPLICATION FORM FOR REGISTRATION OF HEALTH 
SUPPLEMENTS ........................................................................................ 24 
ANNEXURE B Motivation for the inclusion of a non-listed Substance as 
Health Supplement .................................................................................. 28 
ANNEXURE C Allowable Levels and claims: Probiotics ............................ 30 
ANNEXURE D: Allowable Levels and claims: Prebiotics ........................... 31 
ANNEXURE E: Allowable Levels and claims: Vitamins ............................. 32 
ANNEXURE F: Allowable Levels and claims: Minerals.............................. 49 
Allowable Levels and claims: Minerals: Electrolytes ................................. 70 
ANNEXURE G: Allowable Levels and claims: Proteins and Amino Acids ... 72 
ANNEXURE H: Allowable Levels and claims: Animal Extracts Products and 
Derivatives ............................................................................................... 92 
 
 
 
iv
ANNEXURE I: Allowable levels and claims: Fats, Oils and Fatty Acids ... 100 
ANNEXURE J:  Allowable levels and claims: Carotenoids ...................... 141 
ANNEXURE K: Allowable levels and claims: Polyphenols (including 
Bioflavonoids)......................................................................................... 149 
Appendix 1 - Definitions and Conversion Factors .................................. 150 
ANNEXURE L: Allowable levels and claims: Aminosaccharides .............. 177 
ANNEXURE M: Allowable levels and claims: Saccharides ...................... 181 
ANNEXURE N Allowable levels and claims: Enzymes ............................. 195 
ANNEXURE O: Allowable levels and claims: Other ................................. 207 
 
 
 
 
 
 
v
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 
 
DPER 
Department of Product Evaluation and Registration 
PPB 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
CTD 
Common Technical Dossier 
API 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
GMP 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
GLP 
Good Laboratory Practice 
WHO 
World Health Organization 
FDA 
Food and Drug Administration 
HACCP 
Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point 
SE 
Safety and Efficacy 
QSE 
Quality, Safety and Efficacy 
TSE 
Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy 
BSE 
Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy 
GRAS 
Generally Regarded as Safe 
SSF 
Single Substance Formulations 
MSF 
Multiple Substance Formulations 
NRV 
Nutrient Reference Value 
PIL 
Patient Information Leaflet 
PI 
Patient Information 
SI 
International System of Units 
CFU 
Colony Forming Unit 
FOS 
Fructooligosaccharides 
GOS 
Galactooligosaccharides 
XOS 
Xylooligosaccharides 
RAE 
Retinol activity Equivalents 
HAP 
Hydrolyzed Animal Protein 
HVP 
Hydrolyzed Vegetable Protein 
DNA 
Deoxyribonucleic Acid 
CBD 
Cannabidiol 
BCAA 
Branched Chain Amino Acid 
MDD 
Maximum Daily Dose 
 
 
 
vi
EPA 
Eicosapentanoic Acid 
DPA 
Docosapentaenoic Acid 
DHA 
Docosahexaenic Acid 
RDA 
Recommended Dietary Allowance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vii
GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
 
This glossary provides clarity on not only the use of terms in this document 
but also to the terminologies that may be relevant to the registration process 
in general. 
 
Act 
The Pharmacy and Poisons Act CAP 244 as amended. 
 
Active Ingredient 
An active ingredient is any component that provides pharmacological activity 
or other direct effect in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or 
prevention of disease, or to affect the structure or any function of the body. 
 
Additive  
A substance other than a typical ingredient, which has been appropriately 
evaluated for quality and safety included in a nutritional supplement for a 
specific reason (e.g. to maintain stability of the finished product). 
 
Bioburden 
The quantity and characteristics of micro-organisms present in the medicines 
or substances or to which the medicines or substances may be exposed in a 
manufacturing environment. 
 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
Part of quality assurance which ensures that products are consistently 
produced and controlled to the quality standards appropriate to their 
intended use and as required by the marketing authorization. 
 
Combination product 
A product that contains a mixture of at least one substance of discipline-
specific origin and one or more health supplements; or a mixture of at least 
one substance of discipline-specific origin and one or more of its isolated 
constituents, but does not include a multiple substance formulation of Health 
 
 
 
viii 
Supplements. 
 
Complementary medicine 
A substance or mixture of substances that: 
a) originates from plants, fungi, algae, seaweeds, lichens, minerals, 
animals or other substance as determined by the Authority; 
b) is used or claiming to be suitable for use or manufactured or sold for 
use; 
i. 
in maintaining, complementing or assisting the physical or mental 
state; or 
ii. 
to diagnose, treat, mitigate, modify, alleviate, prevent disease or 
illness, the symptoms or signs thereof, abnormal physical or mental 
state of a human being; and 
c) is used- 
i. 
as a health supplement; or 
ii. 
in accordance with those disciplines as determined by the 
Authority; 
 
Food Supplements  
Are manufactured products intended to supplement a person's diet by taking 
a pill, capsule, tablet, powder, or liquid. A supplement can provide nutrients 
either extracted from food sources or that are synthetic. 
 
For purposes of this guideline, food supplements are also referred to as 
nutritional formulations and/ or dietary supplements. 
 
Formulation 
A list of the ingredients used in the manufacture of a nutritional formulation 
and a statement of the quantity of each ingredient in a defined weight, volume, 
unit or batch. 
 
Label 
A display of printed information: 
a) on or attached to the complementary medicine OR 
 
 
 
ix
b) on or attached to a container or primary pack in which the medicines 
are supplied OR 
c) supplied with such a container or pack AND 
in accordance with Section 34 of the Pharmacy and Poisons Act, Cap 244 
 
Scope of Nutritional supplement 
Means food supplement/dietary supplement, health supplement or 
nutraceutical product intended to supplement the diet, and shall 
include all of the following characteristics: - 
a) is intended to be taken orally in the form of tablet, capsule, powder, soft 
gel, gel cap, granules or liquid. 
b) is not represented for use as a conventional food or as a sole item of a 
meal or the diet. 
c) is labelled as such. 
d) contains one or more of the following: vitamins; minerals; amino acids; 
essential oils; natural substances of plant or animal origin; enzymes; 
substances with nutritional or physiological function. 
 
 
Therapeutic use  
Refers to the consumption of a specific nutritional product or 
substances with the intention of improving or maintaining health 
and wellbeing 
 
This glossary is not exhaustive and does not include all terms applicable to 
the regulation of Health products and technologies. 
 
 
 
 
 
x
DEFINITION OF TERMS  
For the purpose of this guideline, the following definitions shall apply 
as per the Pharmacy and Poisons Act Cap 244: 
 
“Health product” includes human and veterinary medicines, medical 
products, medicinal substances, vaccines, diagnostics, medical devices, blood 
products, traditional and alternative medicine, therapeutic feeds and 
nutritional formulations, cosmetics and related products; 
 
“Health supplement” means any substance, extract or mixture of 
substances as determined by the Authority, sold in dosage forms used or 
claimed for use in restoring, correcting or modifying any physical or mental 
state by: 
a) complementing health; 
b) supplementing the diet; or 
c) a nutritional effect, 
 
Substances that are excluded from being regarded as a health supplement 
include: 
• Injectable substances; 
• Substances classified in the medicines schedules that don’t fall into the 
class of nutritional supplements.   
• substances not specified in the lists of included substances (unless duly 
motivated for inclusion as a health supplement). 
• isolated active ingredients not provided for in the annexures of health 
supplements. 
 
 
 
 
 
xi
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
The CEO, Pharmacy and Poisons Board would like to thank the following 
persons for their comments and contributions to the development of this 
guideline. 
Contributors:  
1. Dr. Wilberforce Kariuki Gachoki - Deputy director Product evaluation and 
Registration 
Reviewers:  
1. Dr. Sarah Chesaro – Product evaluation and Registration 
2. Dr. Dorris Kiamba - Product evaluation and Registration 
3. Dr. Emmanuel Devi - Product evaluation and Registration 
4. Dr. Purity Mutinda - Product evaluation and Registration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
xii
LEGAL FRAMEWORK 
 
The PPB is established under the Pharmacy and Poisons Act Cap 244 Laws of 
Kenya (“the Act”). Under the Act, Health Product is defined as to include 
human and veterinary medicines, medical products, medicinal substances, 
vaccines, diagnostics, medical devices, blood products, traditional and 
alternative medicine, therapeutic feeds and nutritional formulations, 
cosmetics and related products. The health supplements therefore fall under 
the definition of health products in the category of therapeutic feeds and 
nutritional formulations.  
 
Additionally, PPB is statutorily empowered under Section 3A (a) of the Act to 
formulate guidelines for regulating the manufacture, import and export, 
distribution, sale and use of medical products including medical devices and 
IVDs. These guidelines are intended to implement the requirements of the Act 
to ensure that all medicinal products manufactured in, imported into or 
exported from the country.  
 
This guideline is therefore intended to implement the requirements outlined 
under Section 3B (2) (b) of the Act in bringing clarity to regulatory 
requirements of quality, safety and efficacy on manufacture, importation, 
export, distribution, sale and use of health supplements in Kenya. 
 
In execution of its regulatory functions, the PPB is empowered under Section 
3 B (r) of the Act to collaborate with other national, regional and international 
institutions on medical substance regulation. The mechanisms enable the 
PPB to recognize and rely on registrations and certifications from notified 
bodies and reference regulatory authorities. It however retains the 
independence, responsibility and is accountable for the decisions taken, the 
reliance with the decisions, assessment and information of others 
notwithstanding.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
xiii
FOREWORD 
This guideline is intended to provide recommendations to applicants wishing 
to submit applications for the registration of Health Supplements. It is not 
intended as an exclusive approach. The PPB reserves the right to request any 
additional information to establish the safety, quality, and efficacy of a health 
product in keeping up with the current knowledge at the time of evaluation. 
Alternative approaches may be used but these should be scientifically and 
technically justified.  
 
The PPB is committed to ensuring that all registered Health products will be 
of the required quality, safety and efficacy.  It is important that applicants 
also adhere to the administrative requirements to avoid delays in the 
processing and evaluation of applications. 
Guidelines and application forms are available on the official PPB website 
https://www.pharmacyboardkenya.org/. Further Annexures associated, but 
not yet included, with this guideline will be published for public comment 
prior to implementation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
1.1 
Purpose 
The purpose of this Guideline is to provide clear guidance with regard to the 
Quality, safety and efficacy (QSE) requirements for registration of nutritional 
supplements. The nutritional supplements discussed in this guideline include 
vitamins, minerals, amino acids, enzymes, essential oils and natural 
substances of plant or animal origin. It is of importance to note and emphasize 
that nutritional supplements are limited to products administered via enteral 
route in the form of tablets, powder, capsules, gel caps, soft gels, granules 
and liquids. Products prepared in forms which require administration other 
than the enteral route shall not be considered in this nutritional supplement 
guideline and will be subject to other requirements. Nutritional supplements 
should be taken in quantities not exceeding recommended limits. 
 
The intent of this document is to ensure that the levels of evidence for QSE 
are rigorous enough to protect public health and maintain consumer 
confidence, while providing a clearly defined pathway to register nutritional 
supplements. 
It should be read together with the current versions of the following 
documents, including those referred to therein: 
i) Screening Template for new applications for registration of a Nutritional 
Supplements  
ii) Nutritional Supplements - Roadmap and Transitional Process 
iii) Nutritional Supplements - Use of the PPB PRIMS online application 
 
Other PPB guidelines may be referred to where appropriate 
 
 
1.2 
Scope and Overview 
This guideline has been divided into four chapters in which chapter one gives 
definitions of terms. Chapter two provides guidance to applicants on the 
general and administrative requirements. Products specific requirements and 
labeling are provided in chapters three and four respectively. An application 
form to be filled in both word and PDF format and submitted to the Pharmacy 
 
 
 
2
and Poisons Board Kenya is annexed to the guideline. 
With respect to any registration of a Nutritional Supplement, it is a legal 
requirement that data submitted for evaluation should substantiate all claims 
and should meet technical requirements of quality, safety and efficacy of the 
product for the purposes for which it is intended. The nature of registration 
of Nutritional Supplement is such that PPB wishes to ensure that products 
sold to the public which fall under this classification are of good quality and 
are safe. The efficacy of such products is established by the use of permitted 
claims associated with individual ingredients. Allowance is made for the 
development of multiple substance formulations and their associated claims. 
 
 
 
 
 
3
2.0 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
Every person who intends to market nutritional supplements in the Kenyan 
region must apply for registration of the product. When applying for 
registration to the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, the applicant is obliged to 
follow the instructions prescribed in these guidelines. 
 
 In order to avoid unnecessary delays, applicants are strongly urged to read 
these guidelines carefully to enable them prepare and submit acceptable 
applications. Submission of an application contrary to the requirements 
prescribed in this guideline may result in delays, queries or rejection of the 
application. 
 
2.1 
Validity of registration 
The registration of a product is typically valid for five years, with annual 
retention, subject to meeting prescribed conditions, unless it is suspended, 
canceled, or revoked. 
2.2 
Notification of change/ Variation 
If for any reason the registration holder changes any matter related to a 
registered nutritional supplement (e.g., change of composition, packaging, 
labelling etc.) shall before marketing the changed product, notify the 
alteration to PPB along with justification and obtain an approval. 
2.3 
Compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), Good 
Laboratory Practice (GLP) 
2.3.1 Good Laboratory Practice (GLP): 
Any alternative standards must be specified, referenced and 
justified. Tests on Microbial Limit for powders and Liquid 
formulations including test for heavy metals for all formulations 
will be a requirement.  
2.3.2 Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP):  
All manufacturers of Health supplements shall comply with all 
relevant aspects of Good Manufacturing Practice as outlined in 
the 
latest 
version 
of 
the 
PPB’s 
“GUIDE 
TO 
GOOD 
MANUFACTURING PRACTICE. 
 
 
 
4
 
2.4 
Food Supplement Registration fee: 
The applicable fees are outlined in the Government Gazette and can also be 
accessed through the website. 
2.5 
Applicant 
Application for registration of a Dietary/Food Supplement shall be made 
only by: 
i) The patent holder 
ii) The manufacturer 
iii) Local Technical Representative authorized by the manufacturer or 
patent holder 
The applicant's name, physical address, telephone number, fax number, and 
e-mail address shall be provided. 
 
Authorized representative in Kenya 
 
A body corporate (company) shall be the applicant’s local technical 
representative in Kenya with legal authorization (power of attorney) to take 
full responsibility for the product on behalf of the applicant, and will be 
answerable to PPB. 
 
This body corporate shall be called the Local Technical Representative (LTR). 
A copy of the legal authority given to the representative or agent shall be 
enclosed. 
 
2.6 
Particulars of /food supplement 
Proprietary name means the (trade or brand) name which is unique to a 
particular food/Dietary Supplement by which it is generally identified. 
i) 
All Dietary/Food Supplements shall be notified as per their 
proprietary Name. The Proprietary Name should not be derived 
from INN name and should not have an INN stem. 
ii) 
If derived from Generic Name should not be similar to the Generic 
Name. 
iii) 
Each Name used should be distinctive in sound and in writing not 
to be confused with Names of other Products. 
 
 
 
5
iv) 
The Name should not be misleading e.g. use Protavit for product 
not containing implied micro or macronutrient. Names which lead 
to self-diagnosis in conditions requiring professional diagnosis will 
be considered as misleading. 
v) 
Any Phrase that implies superiority, speed or better performance 
over other products shall not be allowed. 
vi) 
A covering letter must explain the meaning of abbreviations, 
symbols, and alpha-numerals. 
vii) A proprietary name should not carry prescription information 
unless otherwise backed with a strong scientifically proven report 
that support the connotation. 
viii) When the Name being applied for is identical or very close to 
already registered Name, applicant shall be advised to change to 
another Name. 
ix) 
Proprietary Names shall not be reserved for applications that have 
not been yet received. 
 
2.6.1 Approved / INN / generic name in relation to a Dietary/Food 
Supplement products means the internationally recognized non-
proprietary name of such a product or Name of the micro or 
macro active or such other name as the PPB may determine. 
2.6.2 Strength shall be given per unit dosage form or per specified 
quantity: e.g. mg per tablet, mg per capsule, mg/mL, mg per 5mL 
spoonful, mg per G, etc. 
2.6.3 Dosage form shall mean the form in which the Dietary 
Supplement is presented, e.g. solution, suspension, Tablet, 
emulsion, Capsules, Sachet, etc. 
2.6.4 Visual description of the Product shall mean a full visual 
description of the Dietary Supplement including colour, size, 
shape and other relevant features, e.g. ‘Orange and white gelatin 
capsule with marks “Provit”, or ‘pink film-coated tablets with 
word “Haemforte” embossed on one side’ etc. 
2.6.5 Commercial pack sizes of the product Pack size of the product 
shall mean presentation of the product to be registered ie list all 
 
 
 
6
pack sizes intended for marketing in Kenya. 
 
2.7 
Requirements for Labelling of Nutritional Supplements 
For the purposes of these guidelines the following are the general labelling 
requirements: - 
 
2.7.1 Nutritional supplements shall not be described or presented on 
any label or in any labeling in a manner that is false, misleading 
or deceptive or is likely to create an erroneous impression 
regarding its character in any respect. 
2.7.2 Nutritional supplements shall be labeled in such a way that: - 
a) It does not in any way either directly or indirectly 
claim to prevent, diagnose, treat, cure or mitigate 
any disease; 
2.7.3 It does not imply that nutritional supplements can be used for 
the replacement of meals or varied diet; The label of the 
nutritional supplement shall contain a cautionary statement 
where applicable e.g., adverse effects or risks of excessive intake, 
contraindications, any warning and precautions associated with 
the use of the product and instruction that the product should 
be stored out of reach of children. 
2.7.4 Every container of any nutritional supplement shall be affixed 
with a label bearing the following information in clearly legible 
and indelible letters in official languages i.e., English or Kiswahili. 
2.7.5 Product name: - 
2.7.5.1 Brand or trade name of the product. 
2.7.5.2 Identify the product as “food or dietary supplement” or 
describe the type of supplement i.e. supplement 
preceded by the name of the dietary ingredient(s) e.g. 
calcium supplement, multivitamin supplement, etc. 
 
2.7.6  List of ingredients 
 
2.7.6.1 Except for single-ingredient nutritional supplements, a 
 
 
 
7
list of ingredients shall be declared on the label with the 
corresponding quantities per specified unit of measure. 
2.7.6.2 All ingredients shall be listed in descending order by 
weight (m/m) at time of manufacture of nutritional 
supplement. 
2.7.6.3 If the ingredient is from animal or plant, scientific name 
of the plant and part of animal or plant used shall be 
declared. 
2.7.6.4 Labelling must include the quantity per intake for each 
ingredient, the form and source e.g., "calcium in form of 
calcium carbonate from oyster shell. 
2.7.6.5  Additives/excipients such as fillers, artificial colors, 
sweeteners, flavors, or binders shall be listed by their 
specific names/E-numbers and qualified by words 
“natural” or “artificial” in descending order in weight or 
volume e.g., E110/Sunset yellow as artificial colorant. 
 
2.7.7 Nutritional information 
Label must declare in numerical form the amount of nutrients 
presents in the product per portion of the product   as per the 
recommended dietary allowance.  
2.7.8 Net content and weight 
The net contents shall be declared in the metric system (Sl units) 
by weight for solid or powdered products, volume for liquid or 
number for tablets and capsules. 
 
2.7.9 Particulars of Manufacturer 
2.7.9.1 General 
Name and address of the manufacturer including country of 
origin of the nutritional supplement shall be declared. 
2.7.10 Batch/Lot identification 
Each product shall be permanently marked in code or in clear 
expression to identify the producing factory and the batch/lot 
number. 
 
 
 
8
2.7.11 Manufacturing, 
Expiry date and storage instruction. All product labels shall be 
permanently marked with date of manufacture and expiry, 
which shall indicate at least the month and year. 
2.7.12 Appropriate storage conditions  
Recommended for the product shall be declared. 
2.7.13 Instruction for Use 
Clear and concise instruction for use (quantity, frequency, age 
group, special conditions, etc.) and amounts to be taken daily 
shall be included on the label to ensure correct utilization of 
the product. 
2.7.14 Precautions 
State any precautions to be observed when using the 
nutritional supplement. 
2.7.15 Additional information 
Any additional information for effective use of the product may 
be included as package insert. 
 
2.8 
Information leaflet 
i) Applicants should include Scientific Package Inserts in Dietary 
Supplements Packs.  
ii) Package Inserts will ensure that food/dietary supplements are safely 
and effectively used under the recommended conditions of use.  
iii) Package inserts should not carry promotional statements and make 
comparison of its product to other products  
iv) In case of changes in the Scientific package information leaflet after 
product has been registered, PPB should be notified of the variation. 
The information leaflet shall include the following minimum 
information: 
 
Proprietary Name 
i) 
Approved INN/Generic Name if it’s applicable 
ii) 
Identification: Brief description of the physical appearance of the 
product. 
 
 
 
9
iii) 
Presentation: Dosage form, and total quantity presented per unit 
pack  
iv) 
milligrams, grams, Number of Tablets e.t.c. 
v) 
Composition of product’s active ingredients, stating name of each 
active 
vi) 
ingredient and content in a unit dose. 
vii) Name of the preservative and unit quantity per dose added into 
the product. 
viii) Name of Anti-oxidants and unit quantity per dose added into the 
product. 
ix) 
Quantity of total alcohol contained in Dietary Supplement 
products for human 
x) 
consumption. 
a) Warning in block letters of ingredients that are likely to 
cause harm to humans eg “CONTAINS TARTRAZINE” if 
tartrazine 
was 
added 
to 
preparations 
for 
human 
consumption. 
b) Approved Name of any other inactive ingredients contained 
in the formulation. 
c) Nutritional benefit of the dietary supplement. The stated 
nutritional claims must be 
xi) 
to educate the users and must not be for promotional purposes. 
Food supplements must not be labelled for any specific medicinal 
purposes i.e treatment or prevention, implied or otherwise of any 
disease or disorder including its related disorders. 
xii) Dosage and directions for use: 
a) Indicate dosages and dosage intervals 
b) Contraindications 
c) Precautions in pregnancy, lactation, renal and hepatic failure 
etc 
d) Side effects and Special precautions 
e) Symptoms and treatment of over dosage 
f) Storage instructions 
g) Shelf-life 
 
 
 
10
h) Name and address of the manufacturer 
xiii) Trade Marks and logos: Infringements on Trademarks or logos are 
the concern of the applicant and not PPB. Disputes regarding 
trademarks infringements not identified by PPB during the time of 
registration or amendments shall be the responsibility of the 
applicants. If, however, valid safety concerns are identified, the 
new applicants shall be advised to make appropriate amendments. 
 
2.9 
Applicant should provide a registration certificate or authorization to 
market the product as Food/Dietary supplement in the country of 
manufacture. (If a food/dietary supplement is not registered in country 
of manufacture, a valid explanation must be given) A copy of the 
manufacturing license of the manufacturer shall be provided. 
2.10 Proposed shelf life and storage conditions. The proposed shelf life 
means the specified length of time prior to use for which the product is 
inherently subject to deterioration and is deemed to be made fit for use 
under prescribed storage conditions 
2.11 Particulars of the manufacturer(s) and activity the name, physical 
address, telephone number, fax number, and e-mail address of the 
manufacturer shall be provided. Where different activities of 
manufacture of a given product are carried out at different 
manufacturing sites, the above particulars shall be provided for each 
site and the activity carried out at the particular site shall be provided 
A copy of a valid manufacturing license shall be provided for each site. 
 
 
 
 
 
11
3.0 
TECHNICAL INFORMATION 
3.1 
COMPOSITION OF THE PRODUCT 
 
State the approved / INN /generic name(s) of the active and inactive 
ingredients in the food/dietary supplement. Trade names shall not be used. 
State quantities of each ingredient per unit dose e.g. mg/tablet, mg/mL, etc. 
Where applicable state the Reference text or Reference to official specifications 
for each ingredient e.g. USP, BP, JP. 
State reason for inclusion of each inactive ingredient in the dietary 
supplement. 
 
3.2 
SUITABILITY OF THE PRODUCT AS A DIETARY SUPPLEMENT 
 
For a product to qualify as a nutritional or dietary supplement, it should 
conform to the definition of dietary supplement stated in this guideline and 
in addition should meet the following requirements; 
i. There should not be any medicinal or therapeutic claims in relation 
to use of the product for treatment or averting of a disease condition. 
ii. The product should not contain any drug substances that are listed 
one of the Schedules in Cap 244. 
iii. The product should not contain any substance of known 
pharmacological activity. 
iv. The recommended overall intake in a day for each micro or macro 
nutrient content should not be above 200% of each nutrient’s RDA’s 
or above acceptable upper tolerable daily intake levels. 
 
 
3.3 
RAW MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS 
 
Raw material specifications and certificates of analysis shall be provided. 
Copies of the supplier’s or manufacturer’s specifications and Certificates of 
Analysis shall be supplied for each raw material as proof of conformance to 
all declared specifications. Submit comprehensive specifications of each 
ingredient used in the product. 
Describe the limit or criteria of acceptance or rejection of raw materials. 
Submit comprehensive specifications of permitted substances used including 
 
 
 
12
those added during the manufacture of the product but do not appear in the 
finished product. 
 
3.4 
DETAILS OF THE PROCEDURES INVOLVED IN THE VARIOUS 
STAGES OF MANUFACTURE.  
The details should include in process controls, control of critical steps, 
packaging, a flow diagram and a copy of complete Batch Manufacturing 
record (BMR).  
Submit comprehensive specifications of each ingredient used in the product. 
Describe the limit or criteria of acceptance or rejection of raw materials. 
 Specifications of permitted substances used to include those added during 
the manufacture of the product but do not appear in the finished product 
 
3.5 
SUMMARISED SPECIFICATIONS OF THE FINAL PRODUCT  
shall be given, i.e. the acceptable limits of the physical, chemical, biological 
and (where applicable) microbiological parameters. A full description of 
analytical and other control procedures carried out to ascertain the final 
product specifications stated above shall be given. 
The Finished product specification should include but not limited to the 
following tests; 
1) Tests for all food/dietary supplements  
a) Description 
b) Identity - test method should be specific for active ingredient(s) 
c) Assay - test method should be specific and stability indicating for 
active ingredient(s) 
d) Impurity limits - to determine the level of degradation products of 
active ingredients, and active ingredient-excipient interaction 
impurities. 
2) Additional tests for Hard Gelatin capsules and tablets 
a) Dissolution (for relatively water insoluble active ingredients) 
b) Disintegration (for readily soluble active ingredients) 
c) Hardness & friability 
d) Uniformity of weight / uniformity of content 
e) Water content 
f) Microbial limits 
 
 
 
13
3) Additional tests for oral liquids 
a) pH 
b) Microbial limits 
c) Antimicrobial preservative content/ preservative efficacy test 
d) Antioxidant preservative content 
e) Extractables from primary container 
f) Alcohol content 
g) Dissolution of suspensions 
h) Particle size distribution 
i) Re-dispersibility 
j) Specific gravity 
k) Water content 
 
All tests should be performed unless development pharmaceutics studies or 
process validation prove that they are unnecessary. Such proof should be 
provided in the application dossier. 
 
3.6 
SUPPLEMENTS CONTAINING HERBAL INGREDIENT(S) 
For nutritional supplements containing herbal ingredient(s) submit the 
following additional information: - 
 
3.6.1 Summary of the profile of the plant used including botanical 
name, genus, species, subspecies, plant parts used, whether 
cultivated or wild, harvesting practices, and treatment to obtain 
raw materials. 
3.6.2 Data to demonstrate the safety of each herbal ingredient in 
human beings e.g., through bibliographic or scientific studies. 
3.6.3 Description of the physiological functions of the herbal 
ingredient(s)/supplement to the intended user. 
3.6.4 Contents of vitamins and minerals. 
3.6.5 The minimum level of each vitamin and/or mineral contained in 
a vitamin and mineral nutritional supplement per daily portion of 
consumption as suggested by the manufacturer should be 15% 
of the recommended daily intake as determined by Food and 
 
 
 
14
Agricultural Organization (FAO)/WHO. 
3.6.6 Maximum amounts of vitamins and minerals in vitamin and 
mineral 
nutritional 
supplements 
per 
daily 
portion 
of 
consumption as recommended by the manufacturer shall be set, 
taking the following criteria into account; 
3.6.6.1 Upper safe levels of vitamins and minerals 
established by scientific risk assessment based 
on generally accepted scientific data, taking into 
consideration, as appropriate, the varying degrees 
of sensitivity of different consumer groups. 
3.6.6.2 The daily intake of vitamins and minerals from 
other dietary sources. 
 
3.7 
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE PACKAGING MATERIAL 
 
The following information shall be provided: 
a) A general description of the container and closure system including 
primary (inner) and secondary (outer) packaging materials used. 
b) Specifications for primary (immediate) packaging components such 
as: glass containers, plastic containers, rubber closures. 
c) Evidence of suitability of the container and closure system for the 
finished product and proof of compatibility of primary packaging 
components with the finished product. 
 
3.8 
STABILITY DATA OF THE PRODUCT. 
3.8.1 All applications must include stability data for the proposed shelf 
life of the finished product. The stability data must be sufficient 
to demonstrate, or indicate with a high probability, that the 
product intended for market will remain safe, of consistent 
quality, and efficacious throughout the product’s shelf life. The 
stability data will form the basis for setting a shelf life and 
recommended storage conditions for the product. 
 
3.8.2 Stability studies report for at least three batches of the finished 
 
 
 
15
product which shall be submitted and shall include the study 
design (protocol), including test conditions (humidity and 
temperature), type of container, results and conclusions. Testing 
must be conducted using containers and closures intended for 
marketing of product. The test condition must mimic Zone IV A/B 
climatic conditions real-time and for accelerated stability data. 
Data for accelerated stability testing must be at least for six 
months. 
 
3.8.3 Attributes (parameters) to be tested should be those susceptible 
to change and are likely to influence the quality and safety of the 
finished product and they shall at least cover appearance for all 
 
 
 
 
 
16
4.0 
POST 
MARKET 
SURVEILLANCE 
OF 
FOOD/DIETARY 
SUPPLEMENTS 
4.1 
Each consignment of food/dietary supplements that is imported 
into KENYA shall be inspected at the port of entry by PPB 
Inspectors 
for 
physical 
attributes 
and 
only 
registered 
food/dietary supplements shall be accepted. 
4.2 
Each batch of every consignment shall be accompanied by an 
authenticated certificate of analysis that states; 
i) Name of the food/dietary Supplement  
ii) Batch Number 
iii) Manufacturing date 
iv) Packaging Date if different from Manufacturing date 
v) Expiry date 
vi) Identification for each micronutrient 
vii) Assay for each micronutrient 
viii) Impurity tests 
ix) Specific tests for applicable dosage form e.g. DT, Uniformity 
of weight, Friability tests for tablets and pH, viscosity, wt/ml 
for oral liquid dosage forms. 
x) Tests for microbial limits 
xi) Certification that all Excipients used are food grade. 
 
4.3 
The manufacturer shall be liable to ensure the quality and safety 
of their products in the Kenyan market 
 
 
 
 
 
17
5.0 
SAFETY AND EFFICACY REQUIREMENTS 
 
5.1 
General 
Underlying general principles regarding the registration and subsequent sale 
of Health Supplements, all products associated within this classification of 
Health supplements shall: 
a) not contain any human part or substance derived from any part of 
the human body; 
b) not contain any other substances except those stated on the label; 
c) not contain substances declared by the Authority to be undesirable 
d) not contain scheduled substances listed as Schedule 1 or higher 
(when indicated for any listed purposes in the schedule); 
e) not be in the form of an injectable; 
f) not contain any active substance which is a chemically-defined 
isolated constituent of plants, fungi, algae, seaweeds, lichens, 
animals or minerals, or a combination of any one or more of these, 
that is documented to exert pharmacological action for medicinal use 
unless otherwise explicitly provided for in the list of substances 
associated with each classification; 
g) not contain agents that can lead to animal-transmissible diseases 
such as Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy (TSE), if they 
contain ingredients derived from animal sources. 
 
Unless otherwise stipulated or provided for in another manner, health 
supplements may contain inactive ingredients that are classified as being 
Generally 
Regarded 
as 
Safe 
(GRAS) 
https://www.fda.gov/food/food-
ingredients-packaging/generally-recognized-safe-gras or any other relevant 
guidance document from stringent regulatory authority. Where required make 
reference to the relevant GRAS listing and ensure that the substance complies 
with specified requirements. 
 
All ingredients that may be delivered by a particular source material used in 
a health supplement should be identified and quantified (e.g., Magnesium 
ascorbate which may yield Magnesium and Vitamin C). 
 
 
 
 
18
In general, health supplements should not be intended for supply to any 
children under the age of seven (7) months old unless where supplementation 
is medically warranted. Applicants are expected to include such information 
on their labelling (label/s, PIL, and PI). 
 
 
5.2 
Single Substance Formulations (SSF) 
 
Products containing single substances must conform to the dosage range 
provided in the relevant ANNEXURE. All products are required to display any 
prescribed warnings on the label; Package Insert and Patient Information 
Leaflet. 
 
 
5.3 
Multiple Substance Formulations 
 
Applicants must present sufficient data demonstrating that the combination 
of such substances is safe in the dosages indicated. Ideally, specific data 
demonstrating the safe administration that is product specific should be 
included in any application.  
Literature (including references, history of use, other acceptable sources and 
monographs) must be submitted in substantiation of the safety profile of the 
product.  
Any multiple substance formulation which contains a substance of discipline 
specific origin and other substances defined as health supplements must be 
submitted as a “combination product” Discipline Specific product.  
Applicants will need to demonstrate explicit, cogent philosophies of use 
amongst all ingredients and the traditional use and/or associated clinical 
evidence should accord with the provided claim.  
For combination products refer to Guideline for Complementary Medicines - 
Discipline Specific: Safety and Efficacy 
 
 
5.4 
Labelling and Allowable Claims 
                                 
 
 
19
Health supplements should be labelled according to labelling regulations as 
stipulated by the Pharmacy and Poisons Act Cap 244 Section 34. 
In general, and unless specifically pre-approved as a disease risk reduction 
claim, indications that refer (explicitly or implied) to the treatment or cure of 
specific diseases are not suitable for use for health supplements. 
Reference to the relative Nutrient Reference Value (NRV) as a percentage may 
also be included on the label where relevant. 
Any use of artificial sweeteners must be clearly stated as the Guideline: Health 
supplements: Registration Application - Quality. 
 
5.5 
Single Substance Formulations 
With reference to single substance formulations, only those claims provided 
in relevant sections shall be permitted. The claim must match the intention 
of the product for the intended age or sex of the intended user, where 
applicable. 
Dosage ranges provided for in the relevant sections must be accounted for. 
Any substance which falls above the maximum will not permit registration as 
a Health Supplement. In the case of single substance formulations that fall 
below the minimum dosage, no claim may be used from those stipulated for 
the relevant substance(s). Claims for such products may be motivated 
provided that efficacy for the product (backed up by appropriate clinical 
evidence) can be proven related to such claim. 
Products of single substance formulation sold without any claims will still be 
required to be registered and as such duly comply with any relevant Quality 
and Safety standards as provided herein. 
For any substance contained in the ANNEXURES that does not carry an 
allowed health claim, an ANNEXURE B submission is required to be 
submitted for consideration prior to the consideration of any application 
which contains the substance as an SSF. 
 
5.6 
Multiple Substance Formulation (MSF) Claim Development 
Claims for multiple substance formulations that conform to the definition of 
a health supplement may be formulated by the applicant should such not be 
provided for. Such claims will only be allowed should they conform to general 
                                 
 
 
20
principles contemplated below and with specific motivation that all 
ingredients would reasonably allow for the maintenance of such claim(s). 
Due to the nature of multiple substance formulations, standardized claims 
are not always provided in the relevant ANNEXURES below. As such, 
applicants may be required to propose acceptable health supplement claim(s) 
that will adequately provide for the intended action(s) of the product. 
A health supplement claim is a statement that indicates the intended 
beneficial effect of a product when used in accordance with its recommended 
conditions of use. The term "recommended use or purpose" is often used 
interchangeably with "health claim" or "indications for use." Claims associated 
with single substances may be used for the generation of claims related to 
multiple substance formulations, provided that the claim is sufficiently 
substantiated and accords with the other substances found in the 
formulation. 
The choice of wording would include any of: 
• General health enhancement without any reference to specific 
diseases1 
• Health maintenance, including nutritional support. 
The use of the words “contributes”, “assists”, “helps”, “aids”, or “maintains” 
are the basis for claim formulation together with a beneficial physiological 
effect based on generally accepted scientific evidence. The applicant is 
expected to formulate a claim which matches the intention of the product with 
the intended age or sex of the intended user, where applicable. 
 
The use of any claim must take account of minimum and maximum dosage 
levels prescribed for all substances where the claim must relate to levels 
permitted in the relevant ANNEXURE and must also account for the action of 
all other included substances in the product. A suitable justification from 
various allowable sources is required to substantiate any developed claim. 
Below in Table 1 is a list of terms and claims (including wording of similar 
meaning) that may not be used in association with the development of any 
claim. The list is not exhaustive and will be updated from time to time. 
                                 
 
 
21
Table 1. Undesirable Terms and Claims for Health Supplements 
 
For multiple substance formulations where any constituents fall below the 
allowable minimums, no claim may be used from those stipulated for the 
relevant substance(s). Applicants may motivate for a claim for such products 
provided that efficacy for the product (backed up by appropriate clinical 
evidence) can be proven related to such claim. 
 
 
➢ Magical 
➢ Miracle/ Miraculously The only 
product to use World’s best 
➢ 100 % safe 
➢ No side effects Guaranteed 
➢ Other drugs/products cannot 
compare with it Sensational relief 
➢ The No. 1 (unless substantiated) 
Efficacious/Effective 
➢ Perpetual youth 
➢ Anti-ageing Longevity 
➢ Breast enhancement, enlargement, 
growth Penis enlargement 
➢ Height enhancement / growth Enhance 
intelligence / Increase IQ Hormone 
releaser/enhancer/amplifier 
Enhancement of sexual organs Sexual 
powers 
➢ Arousal, Libido 
➢ Reference to the cure, treatment or 
diagnosis of any disease unless 
specifically provided for. 
Or any terms that would reasonably infer a similar meaning or intention in English or any 
other language. Terms that generally imply or infer a superior action will not be permitted. 
                                 
 
 
22
REFERENCES 
1. WHO recommendation: calcium supplementation during pregnancy for 
prevention of pre-eclampsia and its complications.   
 
2. https://www.fda.gov/food/food-ingredients-packaging/generally-
recognized-safe-gras  
 
3. https://apps.who.int/nutrition/publications/guidelines/breastfeeding-
facilities-maternity-newborn/en/index.html 
 
4. WHO electronic Library of Evidence for Nutrition Actions 
 
5. https://www.pharmacyboardkenya.org/complementary-medicines 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                 
 
 
23
ANNEXURES 
Application form in CTD Format 
Annexure A 
Inclusion of a non-listed substance as 
Health Supplement 
Annexure B 
Probiotics 
ANNEXURE C 
Prebiotics 
ANNEXURE D 
Vitamins 
ANNEXURE E 
Minerals 
ANNEXURE F 
Amino Acids 
ANNEXURE G 
Animal Extracts, Products and 
Derivatives 
ANNEXURE H 
Fats, Oils and Fatty Acids 
ANNEXURE I 
Carotenoids 
ANNEXURE J 
Polyphenols (including Bioflavonoids) 
ANNEXURE K 
Aminosaccharides 
ANNEXURE L 
Saccharides 
ANNEXURE M 
Enzymes 
ANNEXURE N 
Other 
ANNEXURE O 
 
 
 
 
                                 
 
 
24
ANNEXURE A: APPLICATION FORM FOR REGISTRATION OF HEALTH 
SUPPLEMENTS 
 
Form 1 
APPLICATION FORM FOR REGISTRATION OF HEALTH SUPPLEMENTS 
(To be submitted in PDF and Word format online) 
 
CONFIDENTIAL 
The Registrar,  
Pharmacy and Poisons Board,  
P. O. Box 27663-00506,  
Lenana road, 
NAIROBI.  
 
1. PARTICULARS OF THE APPLICANT 
1.1 The name, physical address, telephone number, fax number, and e-mail 
address of the applicant shall be provided. 
 
1.2 Name of the Local Representative (for imported products only), Physical 
Address, Telephone, Fax and Email 
 
 
 
2. PARTICULARS OF THE HEALTH SUPPLEMENT 
2.1 Proprietary Name of the product 
 
 
2.2 Approved / INN / Generic Name 
 
2.3 Strength of the product 
 
2.4 Dosage form 
              
 
2.5 Use(s) of the product: 
 
2.6 Visual description of the product 
 
2.7 Type of container of the product 
 
 
2.8 Pack size(s) of the product 
 
 
2.9 Proposed Shelf life (in months) of the product 
 
 
2.10 
Storage conditions of the product 
 
 
2.11 
Country of origin of the product 
 
 
2.12 
Status of registration of the product in the country of origin, 
authorization/registration number (attach a Registration Certificate or 
Authorization)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. PARTICULARS OF THE MANUFACTURER 
3.1 Name of the Manufacturer, Physical Address of the manufacturing site, 
Telephone, Fax and Email   
3.2 Where different activities of manufacture of a given product are carried out 
at different manufacturing sites, the above particulars shall be provided 
for each site and the activity carried out at the particular site 
 
 
                                 
 
 
25
3.3 GMP status of the manufacturing site  
 
4.0 TECHNICAL INFORMATION 
4.1 COMPOSITION OF THE PRODUCT  
4.2 List all active ingredient(s) used – PROVIDED AS ATTACHMENT (trade names shall not be 
used) 
 
Scientific 
or 
Botanical 
Name 
Common 
Name or 
Synonym 
Part of 
Plant used 
Specificatio
n (USP, BP, 
or In house) 
Quantity 
per 
dosage 
unit 
Chemical 
Constituent(
s) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  List all non-active ingredient(s) used – PROVIDED AS ATTACHMENT 
Scientific 
or 
Botanical 
Name 
Common 
Name or 
Synonym 
Part of 
Plant used 
(where 
applicable) 
Specificatio
n (USP, BP, 
or In house) 
Quantity 
per 
dosage 
unit 
Reason for 
inclusion  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.0 QUALITY CONTROL OF RAW MATERIALS – ATTACH  
5.1 Raw material specifications 
5.2 Certificates of analysis of the raw material  
 
5.3 Details of the procedures involved in the various stages of manufacture 
 
5.4 In-process controls and control of critical steps  
 
5.5 Primary packaging material specifications 
 
 
5.6 A flow diagram of the manufacturing process 
 
5.7 A copy of complete Batch manufacturing record 
 
 
 
6.0 QUALITY CONTROL OF THE FINISHED PRODUCT 
6.1 Specification of the Finished Product (A full description of analytical and 
other control procedures carried out to ascertain the final product 
specifications stated above shall be given) 
 
 
6.2 Brief Description of the manufacturing procedure and in process quality 
controls (attach batch manufacturing records) 
 
 
                                 
 
 
26
6.3 Analysis of the Finished Product ( The Finished product specification 
should include but not limited to the following tests;  
 
 
6.4 Certificate of Analysis from an Independent Recognized Quality Control 
Laboratory 
 
 
6.5 Packaging and Labeling of the Finished Product (include Package Insert) 
 
 
 
 
7.0 STABILITY STUDIES OF THE FINISHED PRODUCT  
 
 
8.0 PHARMACOLOGICAL AND TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION 
 
 
8.1 Safety of the Product 
 
8.1.1 Literature search 
 
8.1.2 Toxicity Studies 
 
8.2 Pharmacological Information of the Product 
 
8.2.1 Efficacy studies of the product 
 
8.2.2 Dosage regimen 
 
8.2.3 Adverse/Side Effects 
 
8.2.4 Contraindications, Warning and precautions 
 
 
 
 
 
Declaration by an applicant 
 
1. I, the undersigned certify that all the information in this form and accompanying 
documentation is correct, complete and true to the best of my knowledge.  
2. I further confirm that the information referred to in my application file is available for 
verification during GMP inspection. 
3. I also agree that I am obliged to follow the requirements of the Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
which are related to herbal and complementary medicines. 
4. I also agree that the undersigned has not marketed or advertised this product in Kenya and 
will follow the PPB requirements for advertisements of medicines 
5. I also agree that the undersigned will implement a Pharmacovigilance plan for this product 
in accordance with PPB requirements 
6. I also consent to the evaluation of information provided to the Pharmacy and Poisons Board.  
 
 
Name:                              
Position in the company:  
                                 
 
 
27
 
 
 
 
 
Signature and Date:    
      
 
 
 
Official stamp: 
OVERALL COMMENTS AND QUERIES 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion of the assessment 
QUERY RAISED  
 
 
                                 
 
 
28
ANNEXURE B Motivation for the inclusion of a non-listed Substance as 
Health Supplement 
Motivation for the inclusion of a non-listed Substance as Health 
Supplement 
 
If any substance is not listed in the Health Supplement 
Annexures, an application may be submitted to the PPB for 
consideration for the inclusion of any substance in the 
Health Supplement Annexures addressing the following: 
a) EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: An overview of the application and 
its justification. 
b) TABLE OF CONTENT 
c) SECTION 1: The recognition of another international 
regulatory 
body 
with 
a 
similar 
regulatory 
mechanism/standard as a nutritional substance, 
dietary supplement, nutritional form or health 
supplement. 
d) SECTION 2: The safety profile of the substance, including: 
i) Therapeutic profile; 
ii) Minimum effective doses; 
iii) Maximum safe values (with specific age range values as 
appropriate); 
iv) Known side effects; 
v) Contraindications; and 
vi) All known interactions (including interactions 
with medicines, other complementary medicines, 
health supplements, 
disease 
processes 
or 
diagnostics procedures). 
e) SECTION 3: The wording of the proposed health 
claim (indication) of the substance, including any 
supportive clinical evidence in support of the health 
claim and levels proposed. 
f) SECTION 4: Any other literature or motivation in 
substantiation of such substance as a health 
supplement and under specific circumstances. 
g) FINAL PROPOSAL: Consisting of a table composed of 
columns identical to the Annexure into which the 
substance is proposed to be introduced. 
The origin of any complementary medicine is defined to be 
                                 
 
 
29
from plants, fungi, algae, seaweeds, lichens, minerals, 
animals or other substance as determined by Authority. 
Where any medicine is not to be of plants, fungi, algae, 
seaweeds, lichens, minerals or animals the applicant should 
demonstrate that such a substance accords with its use as 
a health supplement with respect to substantiation of 
complementing 
health, 
dietary 
supplementation 
or 
nutritional support. 
NOTE: Scheduled substances or injectable forms of 
substances will not be considered 
as health 
supplements. 
Chemically-defined 
isolated 
constituents of plants, fungi, algae, seaweeds, lichens 
or animals, or a combination of any one or more of 
these will generally not be regarded as health 
supplements, unless explicit motivation including 
recognition by other international regulatory bodies 
with a similar regulatory mechanism/standard and 
sufficient safety data is presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30
ANNEXURE C Allowable Levels and claims: Probiotics 
Allowable Levels and claims: Probiotics 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage ranges. 
Minimum: Minimum Daily Levels Required for use of Health Supplement Claim 
Probiotic 
Health Supplement Claim 
Minimum1 
Bifidobacterium adolescentis Bifidobacterium 
animalis subsp. animalis Bifidobacterium animalis 
subsp. lactis Bifidobacterium bifidum 
Bifidobacterium breve Bifidobacterium lactis 
Bifidobacterium longum subsp. infantis 
Bifidobacterium longum subsp. longum Lactobacillus 
acidophilus 
Lactobacillus brevis Lactobacillus caucasicus 
Lactobacillus casei 
Lactobacillus delbrueckii 
(Including: Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus 
and 
Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. delbrueckii) 
Lactobacillus fermentum Lactobacillus gasseri 
Lactobacillus helveticus Lactobacillus johnsonii 
Lactobacillus paracasei Lactobacillus plantarum 
Lactobacillus reuteri Lactobacillus rhamnosus 
Lactobacillus salivarius 
Lactococcus lactis 
“When ingested on a regular basis, 
probiotics should improve or normalize the 
microbial balance in the human intestines 
and thereby improve the functioning of the 
digestive tract/gut.” 
≥1 x 109 CFU per dosage unit 
(the minimum applies to an SSF or 
MSF in total) 
 
 
31
ANNEXURE D: Allowable Levels and claims: Prebiotics 
Allowable Levels and claims: Prebiotics 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage ranges. Minimum: Minimum Daily Levels Required for use 
of Health Supplement Claim Maximum: Maximum Daily Levels Permitted as Health Supplement 
Prebiotic 
Health Supplement Claim 
(Single Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement Claim 
(Multiple Substance 
Formulations) 
Minimum1 
Maximum2 
Inulin 
Source of fiber for the 
maintenance of good 
health. 
Prebiotics such as [name 
of specific prebiotic] 
beneficially affects the 
intestinal flora by 
selectively stimulating the 
growth of the good/ 
beneficial gut flora/micro-
organisms / positively 
affects intestinal health. 
An average of 6 g prebiotics 
is 
needed daily for general 
digestive health 
Prebiotics such as 
[name of specific 
prebiotic] beneficially 
affects the intestinal 
flora by selectively 
stimulating the growth 
of the good/ beneficial 
gut flora/micro-
organisms / positively 
affects intestinal 
health. 
An average of 6 g 
prebiotics is needed daily 
for general digestive 
health 
2 g 
Advisory: Average of 
6 g daily 
15 g 
Fructooligosaccharides (FOS) 
Galactooligosaccharides 
(GOS) 
Oligofructose 
Polydextrose 
Trans-galactooligosaccharide 
Xylooligosaccharides (fXOS) 
 
 
 
 
 
32
ANNEXURE E: Allowable Levels and claims: Vitamins 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage 
ranges. Minimum: Minimum Daily Levels Required for use of Health 
Supplement Claim Maximum: Maximum Daily Levels Permitted as Health 
Supplement 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Childre
n 
Adult
s 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Vitamin A 
To be calculated 
as retinol or 
retinol activity 
equivalents (RAE) 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
vision 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of eyesight, 
skin, membranes and 
immune function 
10 months 
to 
3 years 
30 µg 
600 µg 
65 µg 
≤ 5 000 I.U. 
(1 500 µg) 
i Vitamin A / All-
trans retinol 
Contributes to the 
development and 
maintenance of night vision 
Contributes the 
development and 
maintenance of night vision 
4 to 8 years 
30 µg 
900 µg 
ii Vitamin A acetate/ 
All-trans 
retinyl 
acetate 
Has a role in the process 
of cell differentiation 
Contributes to the 
development 
and maintenance of bones 
and teeth 
9 to 13 
years 
30 µg 
≤1 500 µg 
iii Vitamin A 
palmitate / 
All-trans 
retinyl 
palmitate 
Contributes to normal 
growth 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
14 to 18 
years 
65 µg 
≤1 500 µg 
iv Beta-carotene / 
All- trans beta-
carotene* 
Contributes to normal 
iron metabolism 
Multi-vitamin 
supplement/ multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
v Alpha-carotene / 
All- trans alpha-
carotene* 
vi Beta-
cryptoxanthin / 
All-trans 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
mucous membranes 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal skin 
 
 
33
beta- 
cryptoxanthi
n* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Contributes to the normal 
function of the immune 
system 
Contributes to the 
development and 
maintenance of bones and 
teeth 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
*1 µg Retinol Activity Equivalents (RAE) = 1 µg of all-trans-retinol 
1 µg Retinol Activity Equivalents (RAE) = 3,3 I.U. (international units) 
vitamin A 1 µg Retinol Activity Equivalents (RAE) = 0,87 µg all-trans retinyl 
acetate 
1 µg Retinol Activity Equivalents (RAE) = 0,55 µg all-trans retinyl palmitate 
Carotenes 
From food sources: 
1 µg of all-trans-retinol = 12 µg all-trans dietary beta-carotene 
1 µg of all-trans-retinol = 24 µg other dietary pro-vitamin A carotenoids namely alpha-carotene and beta-cryptoxanthin information appears 
partly Food Cosmetics and Disinfectants Act 
From red palm oil: 
1 µg of all-trans-retinol = 2 µg all-trans-beta-carotene from red palm 
oil. 1 µg of all-trans-retinol = 4 µg all-trans-alpha-carotene from red 
palm oil. 
 
 
34
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximu
m 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Vitamin 
B1 
(Thiamine
) 
To be 
calculated as 
Thiamine 
i    thiamine 
hydrochlo
ride ii 
thiamine 
monochloride 
iii thiamine 
mononitrate iv 
thiamine 
monophosphate 
v thiamine 
diphosphate vi 
thiamine 
pyrophosphate 
Helps to 
metabolize 
carbohydrates 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
1 to 13 
years 
0,04 
≤100 mg 
0,07 mg 
≤ 100 mg 
Helps to metabolize proteins Contributes to normal 
growth 
14 to 18 
years 
0,07 mg 
≤ 100 mg 
Helps to metabolize fats 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Contributes to normal 
energy- yielding 
metabolism 
Contributes 
to 
the 
normal functioning of 
the nervous system 
Contributes to 
normal 
psychological 
function 
Multi-vitamin supplement/ 
Multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
Contributes to the 
normal function of the 
heart 
Contributes to normal 
growth 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Vitamin 
B2 
(riboflavn) 
Helps to 
metabolize 
carbohydrates 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
1 to 13 
years 
0,04 mg 
≤100 mg 
0,08 mg 
≤ 100 mg 
To be 
calculated as 
riboflavin 
Helps to metabolize fats 
and proteins 
Contributes to tissue 
formation 
 
 
35
i    riboflavin 5′- 
phosphate, 
sodium 
Contributes to normal 
energy- yielding 
metabolism 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
14 to 18 
years 
0,08 g 
≤1 00 mg 
Contributes 
to 
the 
normal functioning of 
the nervous system 
Multi-vitamin 
supplement/ multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Vitamin B2 
(riboflavin) 
cont. 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of 
normal mucous 
membranes 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
skin 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
vision 
Contributes to the 
normal metabolism of 
iron 
Contributes to the 
protection of cells from 
oxidative stress 
Contributes to the 
reduction of tiredness and 
fatigue 
Contributes to tissue 
formation 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
 
 
36
Vitamin B3 
(Nicotinic 
Acid, Niacin 
and 
derivatives) 
To be 
calculated as 
niacin* 
i   nicotinic acid 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
1 to 3 years 
0,6 mg 
10 mg 
1 mg 
≤ 35 mg 
ii nicotinamide / 
niacinamide 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of 
normal mucous 
membranes 
Contributes to normal 
growth and development 
4 to 8  years 
0,6 mg 
15 mg 
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximu
m 
Minimum 
Maximum 
iii nicotina
mide 
ascorbat
e / 
niacina
mide 
ascorbat
e 
iv inositol 
hexanicoti
nate 
(inositol 
hexaniaci
nate) 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
skin 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
9 to 13 
years 
0,6 mg 
20 mg 
Contributes to 
normal 
psychological 
function 
14 to 18 
years 
1 mg 
30 mg 
Contributes to the 
reduction of tiredness and 
fatigue 
Multi-vitamin 
supplement/ multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
Contributes to normal 
growth and development 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
*1 mg niacin equivalent (NE) = 1 mg niacin = 60 mg tryptophan 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
1 to 3 years 
0,6 mg 
10 mg 
 
 
37
Vitamin B3 
- 
Nicotinamid
e 
(niacinamid
e) 
Contributes to normal 
growth and development 
Contributes to normal 
growth and development 
4 to 8 years 
0,6 mg 
15 mg 
2,4 mg 
≤ 500 mg 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
9 to 13 
years 
0,6 mg 
20 mg 
Multi- Vitamin supplement/ 
Multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
14 to 18 
years 
1 mg 
30 mg 
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Vitamin B5 
(Pantothenic 
Acid) 
To be calculated 
as d- 
pantothenic 
acid* 
i    Calcium-d- 
pantothe
nate  
ii 
Calcium-dl-
pantothena
te iii 
Pantethine 
iv d-
Pantheno
l/ 
Dexpanth
enol 
v dl-Panthenol 
vi d-
Pantothenic 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and 
proteins 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
1 to 13 years 
0,2 mg 
≤ 200 mg 
0,4 mg 
≤ 200 mg 
Contributes to normal 
energy- yielding 
metabolism 
Contributes to tissue 
formation 
14 to 18 
years 
0,4 mg 
≤ 200 mg 
Contributes to normal 
synthesis and 
metabolism of steroid 
hormones, vitamin D 
and some neurotransmitters 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good 
health 
Contributes to the 
reduction of tiredness and 
fatigue 
Multi-vitamin 
supplement/ multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
Contributes to normal 
mental performance 
Contributes to tissue 
formation 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
 
 
38
acid vii dl-
Pantothenic 
acid 
1 mg d-pantothenic acid = 1,07 mg d-panthenol 
1 mg d-pantothenic acid = 0,92 mg calcium-d-
panthotenate 1 mg d-pantothenic acid = 0,5 mg dl-
pantothenic acid 
1 mg d-pantothenic acid = 0,54 mg dl-panthenol 
1 mg d-pantothenic acid = 0,46 mg calcium-dl-panthotenate 
 
 
39
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Vitamin 
B6 
(pyridoxin
e) 
To be 
calculated as 
pyridoxine 
i Pyridoxal 
ii Pyridoxal 
hydrochl
oride 
iii Pyridoxal-5- 
phosphate 
(calcium salt) 
iv Pyridoxamine 
v Pyridoxami
ne-5- 
phosphate 
vi Pyridox
ine vii 
Pyridoxin
e 
hydrochlo
ride viii 
Pyridoxine-
5- 
phosphate 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
1 to 3 years 
0,05 mg 
30 mg 
0,1 mg 
≤ 100 mg 
Contributes to normal 
cysteine synthesis 
Contributes to tissue 
formation 
4 to 8 years 
0,05 mg 
40 mg 
Contributes to normal 
energy- yielding 
metabolism 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
9 to 13 
years 
0,05 mg 
60 mg 
Contributes to normal 
functioning of the 
nervous system 
Multi-vitamin 
supplement/ multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
14 to 18 
years 
0,1 mg 
80 mg 
Contributes to normal 
homocysteine 
metabolism 
Contributes to normal 
protein and glycogen 
metabolism 
Contributes to 
normal 
psychological 
function 
Contributes to normal 
red blood cell formation 
Contributes to the 
normal function of the 
immune function 
Contributes to the 
reduction of tiredness and 
fatigue 
Contributes to the 
regulation of hormonal 
activity 
 
 
40
Contributes to tissue 
formation 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adult
s 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Vitamin B12 
(cyanocobalami
n) 
To be 
calculated as 
cyanocobala
min 
i cyanocobalamin 
ii hydroxocobal
amin iii   5′-
deoxy- 
adenosylcobal
amin iv 
methylcobalami
n 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
1 to 13 years 
0,09 µg 
≤ 100 µg 
0,14 µg 
≤ 100 µg 
Plays a role in the process 
of cell division 
Contributes to normal 
red blood cell 
formation 
14 to 18 
years 
0,14 µg 
≤ 100 µg 
Contributes to normal 
red blood cell formation 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good 
health 
Contributes to normal 
energy- yielding 
metabolism 
Contributes to normal 
functioning of the 
nervous 
system 
Contributes to normal 
homocysteine 
metabolism 
Multi-vitamin supplement/ 
Multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
Contributes to 
normal 
psychological 
function 
Contributes to the normal 
function of the immune 
system 
Contributes to the 
reduction of tiredness and 
fatigue 
 
 
41
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adult
s 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Vitamin C 
(Ascorbic 
Acid) 
To be 
calculated as 
vitamin C 
i Ascorbic 
acid/Vitamin 
C 
ii Ascorbyl 
palmitate 
iii 
Calcium 
ascorbate 
iv 
Magnesium 
ascorbate 
v Niacinamide 
ascorbate/Nicot
inamide 
ascorbate 
vi Potassium 
ascorbate vii 
Sodium 
ascorbate viii 
Contributes to iron 
absorption from food 
Helps to metabolize fats 
and proteins 
1 to 3 
years 
2,2 mg 
400 mg 
6 mg 
≤ 1 000 mg 
Helps to metabolize fats 
and proteins 
Helps in the development 
and maintenance of 
bones, cartilage, teeth 
and gums 
4 to 8 
years 
2,2 mg 
650 mg 
Contributes to cell 
protection from free 
radical damage 
Helps in connective 
tissue formation 
9 to 13 
years 
2,2 mg 
≤ 1 000 mg 
Contributes to maintain 
the normal function of the 
immune system during and 
after intense physical 
stress (the claim may be 
used for a daily intake of 
200 mg in addition to 
recommended 
daily intake). 
Helps in wound healing 
14 to 18 
years 
6 mg 
≤ 1 000 mg 
Contributes to normal 
collagen 
formation for the 
normal function of 
blood vessels 
An antioxidant for the 
maintenance of good 
health 
Contributes to normal 
collagen 
formation for the 
A factor in the 
maintenance of  good 
 
 
42
Zinc ascorbate 
normal   function of 
bones 
health 
Contributes to normal 
collagen formation for the 
normal function of cartilage 
Multi-vitamin 
supplement/ Multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
Contributes to normal 
collagen 
formation for the 
normal function of 
gums 
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Vitamin C 
(Ascorbic 
Acid) cont. 
Contributes to normal 
collagen formation for the 
normal function of skin 
Contributes to normal 
collagen formation for the 
normal function of teeth 
Contributes to normal 
energy- yielding 
metabolism 
Contributes to normal 
functioning of the 
nervous system 
Contributes to 
normal 
psychological 
function 
Contributes to the normal 
function of the immune 
system 
 
 
43
Contributes to the 
protection of cells from 
oxidative stress 
Contributes to the 
reduction of tiredness and 
fatigue 
Contributes to the 
regeneration of the reduced 
form of 
Vitamin E 
Helps in connective 
tissue formation 
Contributes to wound 
healing 
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement Claim 
(Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adult
s 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Vitamin C 
(Ascorbic 
Acid) cont. 
An antioxidant for the 
maintenance of good 
health 
A factor in the maintenance 
of good health 
Vitamin D 
To be 
calculated as 
ergocalciferol 
(D2) or 
cholecalciferol 
(D3) 
i Ergocalciferol* 
ii Cholecalciferol* 
Helps in the absorption 
and use of calcium and 
phosphorous 
Helps in the development 
and maintenance of 
bones and teeth 
1 to 13 years 
0,2 µg 
≤ 25 µg 
Contributes to normal 
cell division 
Helps in the absorption 
and use of calcium and 
phosphorous 
Contributes to normal 
blood calcium levels 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good 
health 
 
 
44
*1 µg 
Cholecalciferol 
(Vitamin D3) 
and 
Ergocalciferol 
(Vitamin D2) = 
40 I.U. 
(international 
units) vitamin 
D 
Contributes to the 
development and 
maintenance of strong bones 
and teeth 
Calcium intake, when 
combined with sufficient 
vitamin D, a healthy diet 
and regular exercise, 
may reduce the risk of 
developing 
osteoporosis 
14 to 18 
years 
0,8 µg 
≤ 25 µg 
0,8 µg 
≤ 1 000 
I.U. 
(25 µg) 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
muscle function 
Multi-vitamin supplement/ 
Multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
Contributes to the normal 
function of the immune 
system 
Has a role in the process 
of cell division 
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement Claim 
(Single Substance Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adult
s 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Vitamin D cont. 
Calcium intake, when 
combined with sufficient 
vitamin D, a healthy diet 
and regular exercise, may 
reduce the risk of 
developing 
osteoporosis. 
A factor in the maintenance 
of good health 
Vitamin E 
To be 
calculated as 
d- alpha-
tocoperol 
i D-alpha-
Contributes to the protection 
of cells from oxidative stress 
An antioxidant for the 
maintenance of good 
health 
1 to 3 years 
0,6 mg 
100 mg 
≤ 400 I.U. 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good 
health 
4 to 8 years 
0,6 mg 
150 mg 
9 to 13 years 
≤ 273,3 mg 
 
 
45
tocopherol (1) 
ii DL-alpha-
tocopherol iii D-
alpha-
tocopheryl 
acetate 
iv DL-alpha-
tocopheryl 
acetate 
v D-alpha-
tocopheryl 
acid 
succinate 
vi mixed 
tocopherols (2) 
vii  tocotrie
nol 
tocophe
rol (3) 
0,6 mg 
1 mg 
(273,3 mg) 
A factor in the maintenance 
of good health 
Multi-vitamin 
supplement/ Multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
14 to 18 years 
1 mg 
≤ 273,3 
mg 
 
 
46
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
(1) As d-alpha-tocopherol: mg = TE 1 mg (d alpha tocopherol) = 1,49 I.U. (international units) of vitamin E 
(2) alpha-tocopherol < 20 %, beta-tocopherol < 10 %, gamma-tocopherol 50-70 % and delta-tocopherol 10-30 % 
(3) Typical levels of individual tocopherols and tocotrienols: 
• 115 mg/g alpha-tocopherol (101 mg/g minimum), 
• 5 mg/g beta-tocopherol (< 1 mg/g minimum), 
• 45 mg/g gamma-tocopherol (25 mg/g minimum), 
• 12 mg/g delta-tocopherol (3 mg/g minimum), 
• 67 mg/g alpha-tocotrienol (30 mg/g minimum), 
• < 1 mg/g beta-tocotrienol (< 1 mg/g minimum), 
• 82 mg/g gamma-tocotrienol (45 mg/g minimum), 
• 5 mg/g delta-tocotrienol (< 1 mg/g minimum) 
OR 
D-alpha tocopherol equivalent on the basis that 3,3 mg alpha-tocotrienol or 10 mg gamma-tocopherol are equivalent to 1 mg D-alpha tocopherol.
Vitamin K 
i Vitamin K1 
/ 
phylloquino
ne / 
phytomenadi
one / 
phytonadion
e 
ii Vitamin 
K2 / 
menaquin
one / 
menatetre
none 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
bones 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
bones 
1 to 3 years 
3 ug 
30 ug 
6 ug 
≤ 120 ug 
4 to 8 years 
3 ug 
55 ug 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good 
health 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good 
health 
9 to 13 years 
3 ug 
60 ug 
14 to 18 years 
6 ug 
60 ug 
 
 
47
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Vitamin H 
(Biotin) 
i   D-
biotin ii 
Biocyti
n 
Helps the body to 
metabolize carbohydrates, 
fats and proteins 
Helps the body to 
metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats and 
proteins 
1 to 13 
years 
1 ug 
≤ 500 ug 
1,8 ug 
≤ 500 ug 
Contributes to normal 
energy- yielding 
metabolism 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good 
health 
14 to 18 
years 
1,8 ug 
≤ 500 ug 
Contributes to normal 
functioning of the 
nervous system 
Contributes to 
normal 
psychological 
function 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
hair 
Multi-vitamin 
supplement/ multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of 
normal mucous 
membranes 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
skin 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
 
 
48
 
Vitamin 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single Substance 
Products) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance Products) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Folic Acid 
To be calculated 
as folic acid* 
acid 
Accepted source: 
5-
Methyltetrahy
drofolic acid 
Contributes to maternal 
tissue growth during 
pregnancy 
Helps to reduce the risk 
of neural tube defects 
when taken daily prior to 
becoming pregnant and 
during early 
pregnancy 
1 to 13 years 
15 µg 
≤ 200 µg 
30 ug 
≤ 500 ug 
Helps the body to 
metabolize proteins 
Helps the body to 
metabolize proteins 
14 to 18 
years 
30 µg 
≤ 500 µg 
Helps to form red blood cells Helps to form red blood 
cells 
Helps to reduce the risk 
of neural tube defects 
when taken daily prior to 
becoming pregnant and 
during early 
pregnancy 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good 
health 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Multi-vitamin 
supplement/ multi-
vitamin/mineral 
supplement 
*1 µg dietary folate equivalents (DFE) = 1 µg food folate 
1 µg dietary folate equivalents (DFE) = 0,6 µg as supplement consumed with food 
1 µg dietary folate equivalents (DFE) = 0,5 µg as supplement taken on an empty stomach 
 
 
 
 
 
49
ANNEXURE F: Allowable Levels and claims: Minerals 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage 
ranges. Minimum: Minimum Daily Levels Required for use of Health 
Supplement Claim Maximum: Maximum Daily Levels Permitted as Health 
Supplement 
 
Amino acid chelates as acceptable sources of minerals: 
Due to the non-specific description of the ligand in the amino acid chelate, it is theoretically possible that an amino acid chelate may 
contain amino acids which are separately listed as health supplements in Annexure G of This Guideline, with specified dosage ranges 
and may contribute to the total values of more than one substance per dosage unit. Different amino acids may be used in different 
chelation formulations (e.g. Glycine, Methionine, Lysine, Aspartate) already identified as source materials for various minerals. In 
order to safeguard the rights of consumers and where the intake of substances may impact their health or disease status, not only 
should these be specifically identified, but the amount of amino acid delivered from the source materials identified must therefore be 
determined as these may constitute active ingredients to a product formulation and should not exceed or contribute to exceeding the 
maximum daily value specified in Annexure G of this guideline 
Where the presence of these amino acids do not contribute to the indication of the complementary medicine, it shall be sufficient to 
identify their presence and level in the Professional Information (PI) and Patient Information Leaflet (PIL) only. 
 
The subpopulation "Adults" is the only acceptable subpopulation for the following medicinal ingredients: Boron, Chromium, Manganese, 
Molybdenum, Potassium, Selenium, Vanadium, Zinc sourced from zinc picolinate 
Minerals 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimu
m 
Maximum 
Boron 
Boracic 
 
 
50
acid/Orthoboric acid 
Borax/Disodium 
tetraborate / Sodium 
biborate / Sodium 
borate/ Sodium 
pyroborate / Sodium 
tetraborate 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Boron 
aspartate 
Boron 
citrate 
Boron 
glycinate 
Boron hydrolyzed 
animal protein 
(HAP) chelate 
Boron hydrolyzed 
vegetable protein 
(HVP) chelate 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good 
health. 
Helps maintain 
healthy calcium 
metabolism. 
Not 
permitte
d. 
Not 
permitted. 
0,7 mg 
≤ 3 mg 
Calcium borate / 
Calcium 
pyroborate / 
Calcium 
tetraborate 
Calcium 
borogluconate / 
Calcium 
diborogluconate 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ multi-
mineral supplement 
Calcium fructoborate 
Magnesium borate 
 
 
 
 
 
Minerals 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Childre
n 
Adults 
 
 
51
Substance 
Formulations) 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Calcium 
Including the 
following 
sources: 
Bone meal* 
Calcium 
acetate 
Calcium 
ascorbate 
Calcium 
bisglycinate 
Calcium 
carbonate 
Calcium 
chloride 
Calcium 
chloride, 
hexahydrate 
Calcium chloride 
dehydrate Calcium 
citrate 
Calcium citrate 
malate Calcium 
citrate tetrahydrate 
Calcium fumarate 
Calcium 
glubionate 
anhydrous 
Calcium 
glubionate 
monohydrate 
Calcium 
gluceptate 
Calcium 
gluconate 
Calcium 
Contributes to the 
development and 
maintenance of bones 
and teeth 
Contributes 
to 
the 
development 
and 
maintenance of bones and 
teeth 
1 to 18 
years 
65 mg 
≤ 1 300 mg 
65 mg 
≤ 1 300 mg 
Contributes to normal 
muscle function 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Contributes to normal 
blood clotting 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/Mineral 
supplement/ multi-
mineral supplement 
Contributes to normal 
energy- yielding 
metabolism 
Calcium intake, when 
combined with sufficient 
vitamin D, a healthy diet, 
and regular exercise, may 
reduce the risk of 
developing osteoporosis 
Contributes to 
normal 
neurotransmission 
Contributes to normal 
function of digestive 
enzymes 
Has a role in the process of 
cell division and 
specialization 
Calcium intake, when 
combined with sufficient 
vitamin D, a healthy diet, 
and regular exercise, may 
reduce the risk of 
developing osteoporosis 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
 
 
52
gluconate 
monohydrate 
Calcium glutarate 
Calcium 
glycerophosphate 
Calcium hydrolyzed 
animal protein 
(HAP) chelate 
Calcium hydrolyzed 
vegetable protein 
(HVP) chelate 
Calcium 
hydroxide 
Calcium 
lactate 
Minerals 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Calcium lactate 
gluconate Calcium 
lactate pentahydrate 
Calcium lactate 
trihydrate 
Calcium 
lactobionate 
dihydrate 
Calcium levulinate 
Calcium lactate 
pentahydrate 
Calcium lactate 
trihydrate Calcium 
lactobionate 
dihydrate Calcium 
levulinate Calcium 
levulinate dihydrate 
Calcium malate 
Calcium oxide 
Calcium phosphate, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
53
dibasic Calcium 
phosphate, 
monobasic 
Calcium pidolate 
Calcium 
pyrophosphate 
Calcium silicate 
Calcium sodium 
lactate Calcium 
succinate 
Calcium sulfate 
Calcium sulphate 
dihydrate Coral 
(Whole) 
Dolomite Oyster (Shell) 
*When bone meal is used as a source material for calcium or phosphorus, it must be sourced from a non-human animal that is not 
susceptible to Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy (TSE) diseases, including Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) 
Chromium 
Chromium (III) 
bisglycinate/C
hromic 
bisglycinate 
Chromium (III) 
chloride/Chromic 
chloride 
Chromium (III) 
chloride 
hexahydrate/Ch
romic chloride 
hexahydrate 
Contributes to normal 
macronutrient 
metabolism 
Provides support for 
healthy glucose 
metabolism 
Not 
permitted
. 
Not 
permitte
d. 
2,2 µg 
≤ 200 µg 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
blood glucose levels 
Helps the body to 
metabolize carbohydrates 
and fats 
Helps the body to 
metabolize  carbohydrates 
and fats 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
 
 
54
Chromium (III) 
citrate/Chromic 
citrate 
Chromium (III) 
dinicotinate/C
hromic 
dinicotinate 
Chromium 
(III)-
enriched 
yeast/Chromic-
enriched yeast 
Chromium (III) 
fumarate/Chromic 
fumarate 
Chromium (III) 
glutarate/Chromic 
glutarate 
Chromium (III) HAP 
chelate/Chromic HAP 
chelate 
Chromium (III) HVP 
chelate/Chromic HVP 
chelate 
Chromium (III) 
malate/Chromic 
malate 
Chromium (III) 
nicotinate / 
Chromic nicotinate 
Chromium (III) 
pidolate / 
Chromic pidolate 
Chromium (III) 
polynicotinate 
/ Chromic 
polynicotinate 
Chromium (III) 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ Multi-
mineral supplement 
 
 
55
potassium sulfate 
dodecahydrate/ 
Chromic potassium 
sulfate 
dodecahydrate 
Copper 
Calcium copper 
edetate 
Copper (II) 
acetate/Cupric 
acetate 
Copper (II) 
bisglycinate/
Cupric 
bisglycinate 
Contributes to normal 
iron transport and 
metabolism 
Helps to produce and 
repair connective tissue 
1 to 3 years 
35 µg 
700 µg 
65 µg 
≤ 4 mg 
Contributes to the 
protection of cells from 
oxidative stress 
Helps to form red blood cells 
4 to 8 years 
35 µg 
2 500 µg 
Contributes to normal 
energy- yielding 
metabolism 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
9 to 18 
years 
35 µg 
≤ 4 000 
µg 
Copper (II) 
carbonate/Cupric 
carbonate 
Copper (II) 
chloride/Cupric chloride 
Copper (II) chloride 
dihydrate/Cupric 
chloride dihydrate 
Copper (II) 
citrate/Cupric citrate 
Copper (II) 
fumarate/Cupric 
fumarate 
Contributes to normal 
functioning of the 
nervous system 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ Multi-
mineral supplement 
Contributes to normal 
hair pigmentation 
Contributes to normal 
skin pigmentation 
Contributes to 
maintenance of normal 
connective tissues 
 
 
56
Copper (II) 
gluconate/Cupric 
gluconate 
Copper (II) 
glutarate/Cupric 
glutarate 
Copper (II) HAP 
chelate/Cupric HAP 
chelate 
Copper (II) HVP 
chelate/Cupric HVP 
chelate 
Copper (II) 
malate/Cupric malate 
Copper (II) 
succinate/Cupric 
succinate 
Copper (II) 
sulfate/Cupric sulfate 
Copper (II) sulfate 
pentahydrate/Cupric sulfate 
pentahydrate 
Contributes to the 
normal function of the 
immune system 
Helps to produce and 
repair connective tissue 
Helps to form red blood cells 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Iodine 
sodium iodide 
sodium iodate 
potassium 
iodide 
potassium 
iodate 
Contributes to the normal 
production of the thyroid 
hormones and normal 
thyroid function 
Contributes to the normal 
production of the thyroid 
hormones and normal 
thyroid function 
1 to 3 years 
6 µg 
133 µg 
14 µg 
≤ 150 µg 
Contributes to 
normal cognitive 
function 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
4 to 13 years 
6 µg 
≤ 150 µg 
Contributes to normal 
energy- yielding 
metabolism 
≤ 150 µg 
Minerals 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Childre
n 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Contributes to normal 
functioning of the 
nervous system 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ Multi-
mineral supplement 
> 14 years 
14 µg 
 
 
57
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
skin 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Iron 
Ferritin 
Ferrocholinate 
Iron, carbonyl 
(not 
pentacarbonyl) 
Iron, electrolytic 
Iron HAP chelate 
Iron HVP chelate 
Iron, reduced 
Iron (II) 
ascorbate/Ferrous 
ascorbate 
Iron (II) 
aspartate/Ferrous 
aspartate / Ferrous 
chloride Iron (II) aspartate 
tetrahydrate/ Ferrous 
aspartate tetrahydrate 
Iron (II) bisglycinate / 
Ferrous bisglycinate 
Iron (II) carbonate / 
Ferrous carbonate 
Iron (II) 
chloride Iron 
(II) chloride 
tetrahydrate/Ferrous 
chloride tetrahydrate 
Iron (II) citrate/Ferrous 
citrate Iron (II) 
fumarate/Ferrous 
fumarate 
Iron (II) 
gluceptate/Ferrous 
gluceptate 
Iron (II) 
gluconate/Ferrous 
gluconate 
Contributes to normal 
energy - yielding 
metabolism 
Helps to form red blood 
cells and helps in their 
proper function 
0 to 18 
years 
0,6 mg 
≤ 24 mg 
1,4 mg 
≤ 24 mg 
Contributes to normal 
oxygen transport in the 
body 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Contributes to normal 
formation of red blood cells 
and hemoglobin and 
proper function 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ Multi-
mineral supplement 
Contributes to 
normal cognitive 
function 
Contributes to the 
reduction of tiredness and 
fatigue 
Contributes 
to 
the 
normal functioning of 
the immune system 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
 
 
 
 
58
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Children 
Adults 
Minerals 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Iron (II) gluconate 
dihydrate/Ferrous 
gluconate dihydrate 
Iron (II) 
glutarate/Ferrous 
glutarate 
Iron (II) glycine 
sulfate/Ferrous 
glycine sulfate 
Iron (II) 
lactate/Ferrous 
lactate 
Iron (II) lactate 
trihydrate/Ferrous 
lactate trihydrate 
Iron (II) 
malate/Ferrous 
malate 
Iron (II) 
oxalate/Ferrous 
oxalate 
Iron (II) oxalate 
dihydrate/Ferrous 
oxalate dihydrate 
Iron (II) 
succinate/Ferrous 
succinate 
Iron (II) 
sulfate/Ferrous 
sulfate 
Iron (II) sulfate dried 
(monohydrate)/Ferro
us sulfate dried 
(monohydrate) Iron 
(II) sulfate 
heptahydrate/Ferrou
 
 
59
s sulfate 
heptahydrate 
Iron (II) 
tartrate/Ferrous 
tartrate 
Iron (III) 
ammonium 
citrate/Ferric 
ammonium citrate 
Iron (III) 
citrate/Ferric citrate 
Iron (III) 
glycerophosphate / 
Ferric 
glycerophosphate 
Iron (III) phosphate 
/ Ferric phosphate 
Iron (III) 
pyrophosphate / 
Ferric 
pyrophosphate 
 
 
Minerals 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Childre
n 
Adult
s 
Minimum 
Maximu
m 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Magnesium 
Magnesium acetate 
Magnesium 
acetate 
tetrahydrate 
Magnesium 
ascorbate 
Contributes to normal 
energy - yielding 
metabolism 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
1 to 3 years 
12 mg 
65 mg 
Contributes to normal 
functioning of the 
nervous system 
Contributes to the 
development and 
maintenance of bones 
and teeth 
4 to 8 years 
12 mg 
≤ 100 mg 
 
 
60
Magnesium 
aspartate 
Magnesium 
bisglycinate 
Magnesium 
carbonate 
Magnesium 
chloride 
Magnesium 
chloride 
hexahydrate 
Magnesium 
citrate 
Magnesium 
fumarate 
Magnesium 
gluceptate 
Magnesium 
gluconate 
Magnesium 
gluconate 
dihydrate 
Magnesium glutarate 
Magnesium 
glycerophosp
hate 
Magnesium HAP 
chelate 
Magnesium HVP 
chelate 
Magnesium 
hydroxide 
Magnesium 
lactate 
Magnesium 
malate 
Magnesium oxide 
Magnesium 
phosphate 
dibasic 
Contributes to 
normal electrolyte 
balance 
Contributes to 
tissue formation 
9 to 13 
years 
12 mg 
≤ 250 mg 
20 mg 
≤ 250 mg 
Contributes to a 
reduction of tiredness and 
fatigue 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of 
normal muscle 
function 
14 to 18 
years 
20 mg 
≤ 250 mg 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of 
normal muscle 
function 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good 
health 
Contributes to normal 
protein synthesis 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ Multi-
mineral supplement 
Contributes to 
normal 
psychological 
function 
Has a role in the process 
of cell division 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
bones 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
teeth. 
 
 
61
trihydrate / 
Magnesium 
hydrogen 
phosphate 
trihydrate / 
 
 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Childre
n 
Adult
s 
Minerals 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Dimagnesium 
phosphate 
trihydrate 
Magnesium 
phosphate tribasic 
tetra-, penta-, or 
octahydrate / 
Trimagnesium 
phosphate tetra-, 
penta-, or 
octahydrate 
Magnesium 
pidolate 
Magnesium 
succinate 
Magnesium 
sulfate 
Magnesium 
sulfate 
heptahydrate 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
Contributes to 
tissue formation 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Manganese 
Manganese (II) 
bisglycinate / 
Manganous 
bisglycinate 
Manganese (II) 
Helps the body to 
metabolize carbohydrates, 
fats and protein 
Helps the body to 
metabolize carbohydrates, 
fats and protein 
Contributes to the 
development and 
maintenance of normal 
Contributes to the 
development and 
maintenance of normal 
 
 
62
chloride / 
Manganous 
chloride 
Manganese (II) 
chloride 
tetrahydrate / 
Manganous 
chloride 
tetrahydrate 
Manganese (II) 
citrate / 
Manganous 
citrate 
Manganese (II) 
gluconate / 
Manganous 
gluconate 
Manganese 
(II) 
glycerophosp
hate / 
Manganous 
glycerophosp
hate 
Manganese (II) HAP 
chelate / Manganous 
HAP chelate 
Manganese (II) HVP 
chelate / Manganous 
HVP chelate 
Manganese (II) 
sulfate / 
Manganous 
sulfate 
Manganese (II) 
sulfate 
monohydrate / 
Manganous sulfate 
monohydrate 
bones 
bones 
Not 
permitte
d. 
Not 
permitte
d. 
0,13 mg 
4 mg 
Contributes to the 
protection of cells from 
oxidative stress 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Contributes to normal 
energy- yielding 
metabolism 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ Multi-
mineral supplement 
Contributes to the normal 
formation of connective 
tissue 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Contributes 
to 
the 
maintenance 
of 
normal 
electrolyte 
balance 
in 
anticipation of extended 
 
 
63
Manganese (II) 
sulfate 
tetrahydrate / 
Manganous 
sulfate tetrahydrate 
 
 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Childre
n 
Adult
s 
Minerals 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Manganese (IV) 
dioxide 
(greater than 60 min), 
high intensity exercise. 
Molybdenum 
Ammonium molybdate 
(VI) 
Ammonium 
molybdate (VI) 
tetrahydrate 
Molybdenum 
bisglycinate 
Molybdenum 
citrate 
Molybdenum 
fumarate 
Molybdenum 
glutarate 
Molybdenum HAP 
chelate 
Contributes to normal 
Sulphur amino acid 
metabolism 
Helps the body to 
metabolize proteins 
Not 
permitte
d. 
Not 
permitte
d. 
2,5 µg 
≤ 230 µg 
Helps the body to 
metabolize proteins 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ Multi-
mineral supplement 
 
 
64
Molybdenum HVP 
chelate 
Molybdenum 
malate 
Molybdenum 
succinate Sodium 
molybdate (VI) 
Sodium molybdate (VI) 
dihydrate 
Phosphorus 
Bone meal* 
Calcium 
glycerophosphate 
Calcium phosphate 
dibasic 
Calcium 
phosphate 
monobasic 
Calcium phosphate 
tribasic Potassium 
phosphate dibasic 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
1 
to 
18 
years 
62 mg 
≤ 250 mg 
62 mg 
≤ 250 mg 
Contributes to the 
development and 
maintenance of normal 
bones 
Contributes to the 
development and 
maintenance of normal 
bones and teeth 
Contributes to normal 
function of the cell 
membranes 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
 
 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Childre
n 
Adults 
Minerals 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimu
m 
Maximu
m 
Potassium 
phosphate 
monobasic 
Contributes to energy-
yielding metabolism 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ Multi-
mineral supplement 
 
 
65
Sodium phosphate 
dibasic 
Sodium phosphate 
dibasic dihydrate 
Sodium phosphate 
dibasic 
dodecahydrate 
Sodium phosphate 
dibasic 
heptahydrate 
Sodium 
phosphate 
monobasic 
Sodium 
phosphate 
monobasic 
dihydrate 
Sodium 
phosphate 
monobasic 
monohydrate 
Contributes to the 
development and 
maintenance of normal 
teeth 
Helps to metabolize 
carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
*When bone meal is used as a source material for calcium or phosphorus, it must be sourced from a non-human animal that is not 
susceptible to Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy (TSE) diseases, including Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) 
Potassium 
Potassium 
acetate 
Potassium 
aspartate 
Potassium 
bicarbonate 
Potassium 
carbonate 
Potassium 
chloride 
Potassium 
Contributes to normal 
functioning of the 
nervous system 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good 
health 
Not 
permitte
d. 
Not 
permitte
d. 
75 mg 
≤1 500 mg 
Contributes to normal 
muscle function 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
blood pressure 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ Multi-
mineral supplement 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
 
 
66
citrate 
Potassium 
citrate 
monohydrat
e 
Potassium gluconate 
Potassium 
glycerophosphate 
Potassium 
glycerophosphate 
trihydrate 
Potassium sulphate 
Contributes 
to 
the 
maintenance 
of 
normal 
electrolyte 
balance 
in 
anticipation 
of 
extended 
(greater than 60 min), high 
intensity exercise. 
98 mg 
600 mg 
 
 
Minerals 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Childre
n 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Selenium 
Monohydrated 
selenium dioxide 
Selenium citrate 
Selenium HAP 
chelate Selenium 
HVP chelate 
Selenium yeast 
Selenocysteine 
Selenomethionin
e Sodium 
selenate Sodium 
selenite 
Contributes to the 
protection of cells from 
oxidative stress 
An antioxidant for the 
maintenance of good 
health 
Not 
permitte
d. 
Not 
permitte
d. 
3,5 µg 
≤ 200 µg 
Contributes to 
normal 
spermatogenesis 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good 
health 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
hair 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
nails 
Contributes to the 
normal function of the 
immune system 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ Multi-
mineral supplement 
Contributes to normal 
thyroid function 
An antioxidant for the 
maintenance of good 
 
 
67
health 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Silicon 
Calcium silicate; 
Choline-stabilized 
orthosilicic       acid; 
Orthosilicic 
acid; Silicic 
acid; Silicon 
dioxide; 
Silicon hydrolyzed 
animal protein (HAP) 
chelate; Silicon 
hydrolyzed 
vegetable 
protein (HVP) 
chelate, Sodium 
metasilicate 
Helps to maintain healthy 
hair, nails and/or skin. 
Mineral supplement. 
Not 
permitte
d. 
Not 
permitte
d. 
10 mg 
84 mg 
Silicon from Equisetum arvense: Data (or certification) 
must be available upon request to show that thiaminase 
has been inactivated. If silicon is sourced from Equisetum 
arvense herb top, it should be isolated and purified. 
Vanadium 
Sodium 
metavanadate 
Vanadium citrate 
Vanadium HAP 
chelate 
Vanadium HVP 
chelate 
Vanadyl sulfate (IV) 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
Not 
permitte
d. 
Not 
permitte
d. 
9,1 µg 
≤ 182 µg 
Mineral supplement 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ Multi-
mineral supplement 
 
Minerals 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Childre
n 
Adult
s 
Minimum 
Maximu
m 
Minimum 
Maximum 
 
 
68
Zinc (and 
derivatives) 
Including: 
Zinc acetate 
Zinc acetate 
dihydrate Zinc 
bisglycinate 
Zinc 
chloride 
Zinc citrate 
Zinc 
fumarate 
Zinc 
gluconate 
Zinc 
glutarate 
Zinc 
glycerate 
Zinc 
HAP 
chelate Zinc 
HVP chelate 
Zinc malate 
Zinc 
monomethionin
e Zinc oxide 
Zinc 
phosphate 
Zinc 
succinate 
Zinc 
sulphate 
Zinc sulphate 
heptahydrate 
If Zinc picolinate is 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of 
immune function 
Helps in connective 
tissue formation 
0 to 
12 
month
s 
0,2 mg 
2 mg 
0,7 mg 
≤ 25 mg 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
skin 
Helps to maintain healthy 
skin 
1 to 3 years 
0,4 mg 
7 mg 
Contributes to normal 
acid- base metabolism 
Helps the body to 
metabolize carbohydrates, 
fats and proteins 
4 to 8 years 
0,4 mg 
12 mg 
Contributes to 
normal cognitive 
function 
Helps to maintain 
immune function 
9 to 13 
years 
0,4 mg 
23 mg 
Contributes to normal 
DNA synthesis 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
14 to 18 
years 
0,7 mg 
≤ 25 mg 
Contributes to normal 
fertility and reproduction 
Mineral supplement/ 
Vitamin/ Mineral 
supplement/ Multi-
mineral supplement 
Contributes to normal 
macronutrient 
metabolism 
Contributes to 
normal metabolism of 
Vitamin A 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
nails 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
bones 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
hair 
 
 
69
used as a source: 
• 
Not suitable for 
children 
• 
Label: Consult a 
relevant health 
care provider for 
use beyond 3 
months 
• 
Label: Do not 
use this product 
if you are 
pregnant or 
breastfeeding 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of 
normal testosterone 
levels in the blood 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
vision 
 
Minerals 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Childre
n 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Zinc (and 
derivatives) cont. 
Contributes to the 
protection of cells from 
oxidative stress 
Has a role in the process 
of cell division 
Contributes to 
connective tissue 
formation 
Helps the body to 
metabolize carbohydrates, 
fats and proteins 
A factor in the 
maintenance of good health 
 
 
 
 
 
70
Allowable Levels and claims: Minerals: Electrolytes 
Substances such as sodium, chloride and phosphate in the form of supplements do not contribute to the maintenance of 
good health since there is likely to be an excess of such substances (particularly sodium) from the diet, not a deficiency. 
Despite this, the use of such substances in high-intensity exercise to supplement the loss of electrolytes and reduce the 
risk of dehydration may take place.  
These entries are therefore provided for products which may be classifiable as Health Supplements on the basis of their 
combination but are not intended to be applicable to foodstuffs supplied in terms of their permissible use. Such products 
are not intended to be used as oral rehydration solutions which are classifiable as Category A medicine. 
 
Minerals 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations) 
Children 
Adults 
Electrolytes 
Including: Sodium 
Chloride Phosphate 
Not permitted. 
Contributes 
to 
the 
maintenance 
of 
normal 
electrolyte 
balance 
in 
anticipation 
of 
extended 
(greater than 60 min), high 
intensity exercise. 
Supports hydration before 
during and after exercise 
and 
to 
maintain 
performance. 
When 
combined 
with 
carbohydrates 
contributes 
to 
the 
maintenance of exercise 
performance 
or 
endurance. 
Not permitted. 
Claims would be permitted 
on electrolyte drinks with an 
average osmolality of 200- 
340 mOsm/kg. 
When combined with 
carbohydrates: 
Metabolizable 
carbohydrates: = 75% of 
total energy. 250kJ/l 
(60kcal/l) = Energy = 
1488kJ/l (350kcal/l). 
15 mmol/l (345 mg/l) = 
Sodium (Na+) = 20 mmol/l 
(460 mg/l) 
Include warning: 
not to be used in cases of 
dehydration as a substitute of 
an oral rehydration solution. 
 
 
71
 
 
 
 
 
72
ANNEXURE G: Allowable Levels and claims: Proteins and Amino Acids 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage ranges. Minimum: Minimum 
Daily 
Levels 
Required for use of Health Supplement Claim Maximum: Maximum Daily Levels Permitted as Health Supplement 
SSF: Single substance formulation 
MSF: Multiple substance formulation Unless otherwise stated the dosage form is oral. 
PROTEINS 
With respect to sources of proteins, should no indication or claim be made or inferred by the product then the product 
may be supplied with claims that are in compliance with legislation pertaining to Foodstuffs. 
 
General Statements: 
Action: 
Proteins are constituents of living cells essential for growth and repair of tissues. 
Warning: 
All products: 
Sufficient protein is provided in normal well-balanced daily meals. 
Do not exceed daily dosage level without consulting a relevant health care provider. 
For products containing over 30 g per day total protein and/or amino acids (including β-alanine): 
If you have liver or kidney disease, consult a relevant health care provider prior to use. 
Products related to Group 2 indications (including any indication associated herewith): 
Not suitable for children under the age of 18. 
All other products: 
Use in children under the guidance of a relevant health care provider. 
 
 
73
Use or purpose: 
Products for repairing body tissues/muscles and restoring plasma glutamine levels (optional): 
Consume no later than 90 minutes after exercising. 
Duration of Use: 
If more than one duration of use statement is indicated for a particular product formulation, only the shortest applicable 
duration of use statement is required on the labelling. 
 
Protein 
Source Material 
Health Supplement Claim 
(Single and 
Multiple Substance 
Products) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimu
m a 
Maximum 
b 
Minimu
m 
Maximum 
Acid casein 
Extract - Bos taurus - milk 
Group 1: 
Source of: 
- protein for the 
maintenance of good health. 
- protein which helps build 
and repair body tissues. 
- amino acids involved 
in muscle protein 
synthesis. 
Protein contributes to the 
maintenance of muscle 
Combined dose for all ingredients from proteins 
in the product. 
Alfalfa protein concentrate 
Extract - Medicago 
sativa – herb top 
Age 1 to 3 
2,6 g 
90 g 
Calcium caseinate 
Isolate – Bos taurus - milk 
650 mg 
13 g 
Calcium sodium caseinate 
Bos taurus - milk 
Age 4 to 8 
Hydrolyzed casein 
Bos taurus - milk 
Defatted wheat germ protein Triticum aestivum – seed 
germ 
950 mg 
19 g 
Flaxseed protein 
Linum usitatissimum - seed 
Age 9 to 13 
Hemp protein concentrate 
Cannabis sativa seed 
extract where it consists of 
a processed product made 
from cannabis seeds 
containing not more than: 
a. 10 mg/kg (0,001 percent) 
of tetrahydrocannabinol 
1 700 mg 
34 g 
Hemp protein isolate 
Age 14 to 17 
Hemp seed protein 
2 450 mg 
49 g 
 
 
74
and does not contain 
whole cannabis seeds; 
and 
b. 75 
mg/kg 
(0,0075 
percent) of cannabidiol 
(CBD); 
mass. 
Group 2: 
Assists in the building of 
lean muscle [tissue/mass] 
when combined with 
regular [weight/resistance] 
training and a healthy 
balanced diet. 
Workout 
supplement. 
Athletic support. 
aMinimum required 
for label claim = 5 % 
of the maximum safe 
level per day. 
bMaximum based on 
the Recommended 
Dietary Allowance 
(average between 
boys and girls) as 
specified in Dietary 
Reference Intakes, 
Institute of Medicine, 
National Academies 
Press, Washington DC, 
2002/2005, Chapter 
10, p. 632 to 649. 
Casein Micelles 
Extract - Bos taurus - milk 
Milk protein concentrate 
Extract - Bos taurus - milk 
Milk protein isolate 
Extract - Bos taurus - milk 
Pea protein 
Pisum sativum seed isolate 
Potato protein 
Solanum tuberosum – 
tuber - Extract dry, 
Extract dry standardized 
Rice protein 
Rice protein 
concentrate isolate 
Rice protein concentrate 
Oryza sativa - seed 
Sodium caseinate 
Isolate – Bos taurus - milk 
 
Protein 
Source Material 
Health Supplement 
Claim (Single and 
Multiple Substance 
Products) 
Children 
Adults 
Minimu
ma 
Maximumb 
Minimu
m 
Maximum 
Soy protein 
Isolated from the bean 
of soy/Glycine max (L.) 
Merr. 
Wheat protein isolate 
Extract - Triticum 
aestivum - seed germ 
Whey protein isolate 
Bos taurus - milk or 
Capra hircus - milk 
Whey protein concentrate 
Bos taurus - milk or 
Capra hircus - milk 
Whey protein hydrolysate 
Bos taurus - milk or 
Capra hircus - milk 
 
 
75
Sesame seed protein 
Avocado protein 
Collagen protein 
SSF: Annexure B submission required.  
MSF: See 3.2.2 of This Guideline. 
Hydrolysed Collagen 
See Annexure H - Animal Extracts, Products and 
Derivatives 
 
 
AMINO ACIDS 
 
NOTES: 
1. When combining individual amino acids with protein ingredients, applicants must consider the contribution of the protein 
ingredient(s) to the total dose of each amino acid, in order to respect the maximum doses indicated below. 
2. With respect to the use of branched-chain amino acids (leucine, isoleucine and valine) the combination thereof may not exceed 
the highest daily maximum of any of the three. The percentage of each BCAA in relation to the total protein content of the product 
must be stipulated. 
General Statements: 
Action: 
Essential amino acids: 
Amino acids are the building blocks of life and constituents of living cells essential for growth and repair of tissues. Essential amino 
acids cannot be made by the body. As a result, they must come from an external nutrient source. 
Non-essential amino acids: 
Non-essential amino acids are those that can be synthesized by the body. These non-essential amino acids serve many functions to 
create optimal health. 
 
Warnings and special precautions: 
Products containing over 30 g per day total protein and/or amino acids (including β-alanine): 
If you have liver or kidney disease, consult a relevant health care provider prior to use. 
All products: 
The indicated daily dose should not be exceeded. 
 
 
76
Not suitable for children unless under the direct supervision of a relevant health care provider for any claims by direct 
indication or implication related to athletic performance, workout supplementation, muscle / protein synthesis. 
Sufficient protein is provided in normal well-balanced daily meals. 
Products for increasing exercise performance (including any indication associated herewith): 
Not suitable for children under the age of 18. 
Ensure to drink enough fluid before, during, and after exercise. 
All other products: 
Use in children under the guidance of a relevant health care provider. 
 
Permitted indications as Workout Supplements (adults only): 
Essential Amino Acids: 
Assists in the building of lean muscle [tissue/mass] when combined with regular [weight/resistance] training and a healthy 
balanced diet. 
Non-Essential Amino Acids: 
Source of (an) amino acid(s) involved in muscle protein synthesis. 
 
Use or Purpose: 
Standardized Indication: 
Supplementation of the dietary supply of amino acids used for the synthesis of body protein and other nitrogen-containing 
compounds. 
Amino Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
 
 
77
1. 
ESSENTIAL AMINO ACIDS 
L- Isoleucine 
Sources: 
Calcium Sodium 
Caseinate Ethyl L-
isoleucinate 
Hydrolyzed collagen 
L-Isoleucine 
hydrochloride N-
Acetyl-L-isoleucine 
Pea Protein 
Source of (an) essential amino acid(s) 
for the maintenance of good health 
Source of (an) (essential) amino 
acid(s) involved in muscle protein 
synthesis 
Assists in the building of lean muscle 
[tissue/mass] when combined with 
regular [weight/resistance] training 
and a healthy balanced diet. 
Products containing all three of 
L-leucine, L-isoleucine and L-
valine, at or above the respective 
minimum doses indicated in the 
Dose section: 
Source of branched chain amino 
acids, which are involved in 
protein synthesis 
Workout 
supplement 
Athletic support 
Must not be consumed by pregnant 
women, children, or for extended 
lengths of time without medical advice. 
66,5 mg 
1 065 mg 
L- Leucine 
Sources 
Calcium Sodium 
Caseinate Hydrolyzed 
Collagen Leucine 
hydrochloride 
L-Leucine 
ethyl 
ester 
L-Leucine 
ethyl 
ester 
hydrochloride 
L-Leucine methyl 
ester hydrochloride 
N-Acetylleucine 
N-Glycyl-L-
leucine Pea 
Protein 
147 mg 
1 824 mg 
L-Valine 
Sources: 
Calcium Sodium 
Caseinate DL-Valine 
Hydrolyzed 
collagen L-Valine 
ethyl ester L-
Valine ethyl 
ester 
hydrochloride 
L-valine 
hydrochloride N-
84 mg 
1 194 mg 
 
 
78
Acetyl-L-valine 
Pea Protein 
1. ESSENTIAL AMINO ACIDS 
Lysine acetate 
Lysine 
dihydrochloride 
Milk protein isolate 
Whey protein 
concentrate Whey 
protein isolate 
Assists in the building of lean muscle 
[tissue/mass] when combined with 
regular [weight/resistance] training 
and a healthy balanced diet 
Helps in collagen formation 
L-Methionine 
Sources: 
Calcium Sodium 
Caseinate DL-
Methionine 
Hydrolyzed 
collagen N-Acetyl-
L-methionine 
Whey protein 
concentrate Whey 
protein isolate 
Source of (an) essential amino acid(s) 
for the maintenance of good health 
Source of (an) (essential) amino 
acid(s) involved in muscle protein 
synthesis 
Assists in the building of lean muscle 
[tissue/mass] when combined with 
regular [weight/resistance] training 
and a healthy balanced diet 
Helps to support liver function 
Consult a relevant health care provider 
before use if you have acidosis, 
atherosclerosis, or 
methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase 
deficiency. 
66,5 mg 
210 mg 
 
 
79
L-Tryptophan 
Sources: 
Calcium Sodium 
Caseinate Whey 
protein concentrate 
Whey protein isolate 
Source of (an) essential amino acid(s) 
for the maintenance of good health 
Source of (an) (essential) amino 
acid(s) involved in muscle protein 
synthesis 
Assists in the building of lean muscle 
[tissue/mass] when combined with 
regular [weight/resistance] training 
and a healthy 
balanced diet 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider before use if you have 
eosinophilia myalgia 
syndrome or liver disease or 
have depression. 
17,5 mg 
220 mg 
2. NON-ESSENTIAL AMINO ACIDS 
L- Alanine 
Sources: 
Calcium Sodium 
Caseinate DL-Alanine 
Hydrolyzed 
collagen 
L-
Alanine 
ethyl 
ester 
hydrochloride 
Whey 
protein 
concentrate 
Whey 
protein isolate 
Source of (an) amino acid(s) 
involved in muscle protein 
synthesis. 
> 0 mg 
363 mg 
beta-Alanine 
Sources: 
Elymus repens subsp. 
repens Humulus lupulus 
Malus 
domestica 
Prunus 
cerasus Ribes 
nigrum 
Solanum lycopersicum 
May improve physical performance 
and exercise capacity. 
May help to delay muscle fatigue 
during physical activity. 
May cause a flushing, tingling and/or 
prickling sensation of the skin, in which 
case, reduce the dose. 
> 0 mg 
3 g 
Maximum 
single 
dose: 1 g 
 
 
80
L- Arginine 
Sources: 
Acetyl-L-carnitine arginate 
dihydrochloride 
Arginine 
bicarbonate 
Arginine PCA 
Arginine silicate 
inositol Brown Rice 
Protein Calcium 
Sodium Caseinate DL-
Arginine 
Hydrolyzed collagen 
L-Arginine alpha-
ketoglutarate L-Arginine 
DL-Malate 
L-Arginine hydrochloride 
L-Arginine 
ketoisocaproic acid L-
Arginine L-aspartate 
L-Arginine 
monohydrochloride L-
Arginine taurinate 
Whey protein 
concentrate Whey 
protein isolate 
Source of (an) amino acid(s) 
involved in muscle protein 
synthesis. 
May help support a modest 
improvement in exercise capacity in 
individuals with stable 
cardiovascular diseases. 
Consult a relevant health care provider 
prior to use if you are pregnant or 
breastfeeding 
For products providing 0,42 to 9 g per 
day: Consult a relevant health care 
provider: 
• if your cardiovascular condition 
worsens. 
• prior to use if you have a renal/kidney 
disease or if you are following a low 
protein diet 
• to use if you suffer from a 
cardiovascular disease and are 
attempting an increase in physical 
activity 
• prior to use if you are taking medication 
for 
cardiovascular diseases, 
erectile dysfunction, and/or 
blood thinners 
> 0 mg 
9 000 mg 
Supports sperm count and motility. 
Supports reproductive health in men 
and women. 
500 mg 
4 000 mg 
Amino Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
2. 
NON-ESSENTIAL AMINO ACIDS 
 
 
81
Contraindication(s): 
For products providing 0,42 to 9 g per 
day: 
• Do not use if you have had a 
heart attack/myocardial 
infarction 
Known Adverse Reaction(s): 
For products providing 0,42 to 9 g per 
day: 
• Some people may experience 
gastrointestinal 
discomfort (such as 
diarrhea) 
L- Asparagine 
Sources: 
L-Asparagine 
L-Asparagine 
monohydrate 
Source of (an) amino acid(s) 
involved in muscle protein 
synthesis. 
> 0 mg 
93,5 mg 
L- Aspartic Acid 
Sources: 
Calcium Sodium 
Caseinate Hydrolyzed 
Collagen Potassium 
aspartate Potassium 
magnesium aspartate 
Whey protein 
concentrate Whey 
protein isolate 
Source of (an) amino acid(s) 
involved in muscle protein 
synthesis. 
> 0 mg 
1 000 mg 
L- Carnitine 
(L-3-Carboxy-2-
hydroxypropyl) 
trimethylammonium 
hydroxide, inner salt 
Carnitine 
Antioxidant 
Workout support/supplement 
L-Carnitine from L-Carnitine 
tartrate: 
Consult a relevant health care provider 
prior to use if you: 
• 
are pregnant or breastfeeding; or 
• 
have a liver disease, a 
kidney disease, or a 
seizure disorder. 
> 0 g 
4 g 
(not more 
than 2 g 
per single 
dose) 
 
 
82
Also for: 
Amino Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
2. NON-ESSENTIAL AMINO ACIDS 
L-Carnitine Fumarate 
L-Carnitine Hydrochloride 
L-Carnitine Magnesium 
Citrate 
Sources: 
L-Carnitine 
tartrate L-
Carnitine 
fumarate 
Aids in the muscle recovery 
process by reducing muscle tissue 
damage associated with a 
resistance training regimen 
Helps: 
- support muscle tissue repair in 
individuals involved in resistance 
training 
- improve physical performance when 
used in conjunction with a training 
regimen 
- delay fatigue during physical activity 
- support fat metabolism 
- support fat oxidation 
Directions for use: 
Take 2 – 4 hours prior to exercise. 
1 g 
if related to 
muscle 
recovery 
2 g 
if related 
to 
physical 
performa
nce. 
L-Citrulline 
(S)-N5-
Carbamoylornithine 
N5-
(aminocarbonyl)-L- 
Ornithine 
Source of a non-essential amino acid. 
> 0 mg 
3 000 mg 
L-Cystine 
(R-(R*,R*))-3,3'-
Dithiobis (2- 
aminopropanoic acid), 
L-Cystine 
Source of a non-essential amino acid. 
> 0 mg 
1 000 mg 
 
 
83
L-Cysteine 
Sources: 
Cysteine 
hydrochloride 
Cysteine 
hydrochloride 
monohydrate 
D-Ribose-L-
cysteine N-Acetyl-
L-cysteine 
Source of (an) amino acid(s) 
involved in muscle protein 
synthesis. 
> 0 mg 
1 000 mg 
L- Glutamic Acid 
Sources: 
Calcium Sodium 
Caseinate Glutamic 
acid hydrochloride 
Hydrolyzed collagen 
Monosodium 
glutamate 
Whey protein concentrate 
Source of (an) amino acid(s) 
involved in muscle protein 
synthesis. 
> 0 mg 
1 500 mg 
Amino Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
2. NON-ESSENTIAL AMINO ACIDS 
Whey protein isolate 
 
 
84
L- Glutamine 
Sources: 
Alanylglutami
ne Glutamic 
acid 
L-Glutamine ethyl ester 
L-Glutamine methyl 
ester Magnesium 
glycyl glutamine 
chelate 
N-Acetyl-L-
glutamine Pea 
Protein 
Source of (an) amino acid(s) 
involved in muscle protein 
synthesis. 
Products containing L-
Glutamine above 5 g per day: 
Helps: 
- restore plasma glutamine levels 
depleted after periods of physical 
stress (e.g., prolonged exhaustive 
exercise) 
- support immune system health 
after periods of physical stress 
- support digestive system health 
after periods of physical stress 
- to assist in muscle cell repair 
after exercise 
Consult a relevant health care provider 
prior to use: 
- if you are following a low protein diet 
- if you are pregnant or breastfeeding. 
> 0 mg 
9 000 mg 
Glycine 
Amino acetic 
Acid 2-
aminoacetic 
acid E640 
Sources: 
Calcium Sodium 
Caseinate Glycine 
Hydrochloride 
Hydrolyzed collagen 
N-Glycyl-L-leucine 
Whey protein 
concentrate Whey 
protein isolate. 
Source of (an) amino acid(s) 
involved in muscle protein 
synthesis. 
> 0 mg 
1 800 mg 
L-Proline 
Sources: 
Calcium Sodium 
Caseinate Glycine 
Hydrochloride 
Hydrolyzed collagen 
N-Glycyl-L-leucine 
> 0 mg 
519 mg 
 
 
85
Whey protein concentrate 
 
Amino Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
2. NON-ESSENTIAL AMINO ACIDS 
Whey protein isolate 
L-Serine 
Sources: 
Calcium Sodium Caseinate 
Hydrolyzed collagen 
Whey protein concentrate 
Whey protein isolate 
> 0 mg 
351 mg 
L-Tyrosine 
Sources: 
Brown Rice Protein Calcium 
Sodium Caseinate Casein 
Hydrolyzed collagen L-
Tyrosine ethyl ester N-
Acetyl tyrosine 
Whey protein concentrate 
Whey protein isolate 
Source of (an) amino acid(s) 
involved in muscle protein 
synthesis. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use if you are: 
• 
following a low protein diet; or 
• 
pregnant or breastfeeding. 
For products providing 
more than 3 600 mg L-
Tyrosine per day: 
Some people may experience 
gastrointestinal discomfort 
(nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting), 
nervousness or 
palpitations, in which case, 
reduce the dose. 
> 0 mg 
3 600 mg 
Products containing 10 g L-
Tyrosine taken 1-2 times per day: 
Helps to decrease cognitive fatigue 
due to physically stressful 
situations 
(e.g. extended wakefulness, 
exposure to cold, excessive noise) 
10 g 
(max twice 
daily) 
Amino Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Adults 
Minimum 
Maximum 
3. OTHER AMINO ACIDS 
 
 
86
Acetyl L-Carnitine 
Acetyllevocarnitine 
hydrochloride 
1-Propanaminium, 2- 
(acetyloxy)-3-carboxy-N,N,N- 
trimethyl-, chloride, (R)- 
Acetylcarnitine hydrochloride, 
L-form 
Acetyl-L-carnitine 
hydrochloride 
N-Acetyl L-carnitine 
hydrochloride 
Acetyl-l-carnitine helps to support 
and maintain healthy brain 
function. 
If you are pregnant or breastfeeding, 
consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use. 
If you have liver disease, kidney 
disease and/or a seizure disorder, 
consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use. 
May cause digestive problems. 
1,5 g 
4 g 
N-Acetyl-L-Methionine 
See L-
methionine. 
(s)-s-adenosyl 
methionine 
Including: 
Ademetionine disulfate ditosylate 
dihydrate 
Ademetionine disulfate tosylate 
Ademetionine disulfate tritosylate 
dihydrate 
Ademetionine hexasulfate 
dihydrate 
Ademetionine hexatosylate 
dihydrate 
Ademetionine pentasulfate 
dihydrate 
Ademetionine pentatosylate 
dihydrate 
Ademetionine tetrasulfate 
dihydrate 
Ademetionine tetratosylate 
dihydrate 
Ademetionine trisulfate ditosylate 
dihydrate 
Maintenance of emotional well-
being. Joint health, mobility and 
joint comfort 
Do not use: 
- if you are taking 
prescription antidepressants, 
except under the supervision 
of a relevant health care 
provider. 
- if you have bipolar depression, 
except under the supervision of a 
relevant health care provider. 
400 mg 
1 600 mg 
Creatine 
(a-Methylguanido) acetic acid 
Glycine, N- 
(aminoiminomethyl)-N-methyl- 
SSF: Annexure B submission 
required. MSF: See 3.2.2 of This 
Guideline. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider before long-term use. 
See claim. 
See claim. 
 
 
87
Amino Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Adult
s 
Minimum 
Maximum 
3. OTHER AMINO ACIDS 
Kre-Alkalyn 
N-Amidinosarcosine 
Creatine 
hydrochloride 
Creatine 
HCl Glycine, 
N- 
(aminoiminomethyl)-N-methyl-,
monohydrochloride 
N-(aminoiminomethyl)-N-
methyl- Glycine 
monohydrochloride 
SSF: Annexure B submission 
required. MSF: See 3.2.2 of This 
Guideline. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider  before long-term use. 
See claim. 
3 g 
Creatine 
Monohydrate 
Creatine 
hydrate 
Glycine, N- 
(aminoiminomethyl)-N-methyl-,
monohydrate 
Increases [body/muscle/lean] 
[mass/size] when used in conjunction 
with a resistance training regimen 
Improves 
[strength/power/performance] in 
repetitive bouts of 
brief, highly-intense physical activity 
(e.g. sprints, jumping, resistance 
training) 
(by increasing 
[muscle/intramuscular] 
[creatine/phosphocreatine/energy] 
levels) 
Consult a relevant health care provider: 
- before long-term use. 
- prior to use if you have a kidney 
disorder 
- prior to use if you are 
pregnant or breastfeeding. 
May result in weight gain. 
2 g 
Maintenanc
e: 5 g 
Maximum
: 20 g 
not to 
exceed 5 g 
per dose 
Creatine Phosphate 
Glycine, N- 
(imino(phosphonoamino) 
methy l)-N-methyl- 
N-
(Phosphonoamidino)sarcosine 
SSF: Annexure B submission 
required. MSF: See 3.2.2 of This 
Guideline. 
Consult a relevant health care provider 
before long-term use. 
Annexure 
B 
submissio
n required. 
20 g 
 
 
88
Phosphocreatine 
Glucose Glutamate 
SSF: Annexure B submission 
required. MSF: See 3.2.2 of This 
Guideline. 
Permitted only in products for external 
use. 
Glucose is a mandatory component of 
this ingredient. 
See claim. 
6,8 g 
Glutathione 
Glycine, L-gamma-
glutamyl-L- cysteinyl- 
Source of 
antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s). 
Consult a relevant health care provider 
before use if pregnant, intending to 
become pregnant, or breastfeeding. 
> 0 mg 
743 mg 
 
 
89
Amino Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Adult
s 
Minimum 
Maximum 
3. OTHER AMINO ACIDS 
L-glutathione 
N-(N-L-gamma-Glutamyl-L- 
cysteinyl)glycine 
SSF and MSF: Annexure B 
submission required for external use. 
Permitted in products for external use. 
See claim. 
4,5 g 
Hydroxylysine 
5-Hydroxylysine 
delta-
Hydroxylysine 
erythro-5-Hydroxy-L-lysine 
SSF: Annexure B submission 
required. MSF: See 3.2.2 of This 
Guideline. 
2 g 
5,6 g 
l-Hydroxyproline 
4-Hydroxy-2- 
pyrrolidinecarboxylic 
acid 4-Hydroxy-L-
proline 
L-4-Hydroxyproline 
SSF: Annexure B submission 
required. MSF: See 3.2.2 of This 
Guideline. 
See claim. 
10 g if 
used 
alone or 
16 g of 
the 
combinatio
n with 
other 
branch 
chain 
amino 
acids 
i.e. leucine or 
valine 
L-Ornithine 
Ornithine 
(S)-2,5-Diaminopentanoic 
acid 2,5-diaminopentanoic 
acid 
Ornithine helps to support liver 
function. 
4,8 g 
6 g 
 
 
90
L-Ornithine Aspartate 
Ornithine aspartate 
Aspartic acid, L-, compd. 
With L-ornithine (1:1) 
Ornithine anhydrous 
Ornithine L-form 
aspartate 
Ornithylaspartate 
SSF: Annexure B submission 
required. MSF: See 3.2.2 of This 
Guideline. 
See claim. 
See claim. 
Ornicetil 
L-Ornithine alpha-
ketoglutarate (L)-Ornithine 2-
oxoglutarate 
Support wound healing and the 
reduction of wound healing time. 
For daily doses 10 g or more: 
Use longer than 30 days under the 
direction of a relevant health care 
provider. 
10 g 
20 g 
 
 
91
Amino Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Adult
s 
Minimum 
Maximum 
3. OTHER AMINO ACIDS 
L(+)-Ornithine 
alpha- 
ketoglutarate 
L-Ornithine, mixt. With 
2- oxopentanedioic acid 
OKG 
Ornithine alpha-ketoglutarate 
SSF: Annexure B submission 
required. MSF: See 3.2.2 of This 
Guideline. 
See claim. 
6 g 
l-Selenomethionine 
Butanoic acid, 2-amino-
4- (methylseleno)-, (S)- 
L-Selenomethionine 
Selenium-L-
methionine 
SSF: Annexure B submission 
required. MSF: See 3.2.2 of This 
Guideline. 
Selenium is toxic in high doses. 
Do not exceed the maximum daily 
dose of  60 micrograms as stated for 
Selenium. 
As stipulated for 
Selenium 
(Annexure F). 
Taurine 
2-Aminoethane sulfonic 
acid 2-Aminoethylsulfonic 
acid beta-
Aminoethylsulfonic acid L-
taurine 
Amino acid that plays a role in the 
support of the immune system. 
Antioxidant. 
Taurine is important for energy 
metabolism 
/ the transformation of food into 
energy. 
Consult a relevant health care provider 
prior to use if you are pregnant or 
breastfeeding. 
> 0 g 
3 g 
Helps to support cardiovascular 
function. 
1,5 g 
L-Theanine 
(2S)-2-amino-5-(ethylamino)-5- 
oxopentanoic acid 
N-Ethyl-L-
glutamine 
suntheanine 
theanin 
Supports maintenance of healthy sleep. 
Annexure 
B 
submissio
n required. 
250 mg 
Helps to support relaxation. 
Helps to temporarily promote 
relaxation. 
200 mg 
 
 
ANNEXURE H: Allowable Levels and claims: Animal Extracts Products and Derivatives 
 
 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage 
ranges. 
Minimum: Minimum Daily Levels Required for use of Health Supplement 
Claim  
Maximum: Maximum Daily Levels Permitted as Health Supplement 
 
 
As per MCC Guideline – Complementary Medicines – REGISTRATION APPLICATION ZA-CTD – QUALITY 
(7.05_CMs_Quality_Jun16_v1) 
With regard to origin or source of ingredients/materials unless from a licensed cultivated, legal source, no animal or plant 
source should be included that are included in the lists of the following: 
IUCN Red Data List, (http://www.iucnredlist.org/technical-documents/categories-and-criteria), Vulnerable (V), Endangered 
(EN), Critically Endangered (CE) or Extinct in the Wild (EW), 
The principles of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) must be 
adhered to. 
Applicants may require a Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) import 
permit if making use of substances (e.g. Hoodia, etc) listed under the National Environmental Management: Biodiversity Act, 
2004 (Act 10 of 2004). 
Any complementary medicine that is of animal origin must comply with the requirements of the Animal Diseases Act, 1984 (Act 
35 of 1984). Animal sources should not be susceptible to Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy (TSE) diseases, including 
 
 
Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE). Any complementary medicine which contains any genetically modified ingredients 
must comply with the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 2008 (Act 68 of 2008). 
 
 
General Statements: 
Warning: 
If symptoms worsen or if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, consult a relevant health care provider. 
 
Where applicable: 
Derived from shellfish/seafood. 
 
Duration of Use: 
If more than one duration of use statement is indicated for a particular product formulation, only the shortest 
applicable duration of use statement is required on the labelling. 
For example, a product citing use or purpose statements for chondroitin sulfate and glucosamine hydrochloride 
need only include the following duration of use statement on the product label: "Use for a minimum of 1 month to 
see beneficial effects." 
 
 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Dosage 
Cartilage 
Sources: 
Bovine, Chicken 
For joint health. 
For connective tissue health. 
Do not use in children 
Do not use if pregnant or 
intending to become pregnant. 
Do not use if breastfeeding. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider before use if you have 
recently had a heart attack, 
surgery or a major 
accident. 
Annexure B 
submission 
required. 
Chondroitin Sulphate 
Avian 
Porcine 
Bovine 
Bovine calcium 
Bovine 
potassium 
Bovine sodium 
For joint health 
Helps to supports the mobility of the joints 
Chondroitin (and glucosamine) may 
help to support healthy knees. 
Use for a minimum of 3 
months for beneficial effects. 
Do not use together with 
Warfarin or  other anticoagulant 
therapy. 
Minimum: 800 mg 
Maximum: 1 200 mg 
Chitosan 
Poliglusam 
(1-4)-2-Amino-2-deoxy-beta-D- 
glucan 
beta-1,4-D-glucosamine, 
deacetylated 
deacetyl chitin 
deacetylated 
chitin poly-
(d)glucosamine 
Poly-beta-(1,4)-2-amino-2-
deoxy- d-glucose 
Sources: 
Exoskeleton: 
Chitin from clam 
Chitin from crab 
Chitin from krill 
Chitin from 
oyster Chitin 
from shrimp 
May help to maintain healthy cholesterol
levels. 
May assist with weight management when 
used with increased physical activity and an 
energy reduced diet in healthy individuals. 
May cause abdominal pain, 
bloating, constipation, 
indigestion and/or diarrhea. 
If you are taking blood thinners, 
consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use. 
If you have an allergy to seafood, 
do not use this product. 
Directions: 
Take with meals. 
Take two hours before or after 
taking other medications or 
natural health products since the
absorption of these products may
be delayed. 
Powdered dose forms: 
Minimum: 1 g 
Maximum: 6 g 
in 2 / 3 divided doses 
 
 
Do not take powder alone. 
 
 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Dosage 
Mix with food or fluid. 
Collagen – hydrolyzed 
Hydrolyzed collagen: 
Type I, Type II 
Sources: 
Porcine skin 
Porcine 
bones Fish 
skin 
Fish bones 
Bovine skin/hide 
split Gallus gallus 
cartilage 
Claim 1: 
Source of the essential amino acids 
histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, 
methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, 
valine for the maintenance of good 
health and involved in protein synthesis. 
Doses above 2,8 g 
hydrolyzed collagen, per 
day: 
• If you have liver or kidney 
disease or if you have been 
instructed to follow a low 
protein diet, consult a relevant 
health care provider prior to use. 
May cause mild 
gastrointestinal 
disturbances. 
Claim 1: 
Minimum 5 % Quantity 
of each specific amino 
acid Nutrient Reference 
Values (NRVs) to a 
maximum of 
10 g hydrolyzed 
collagen, per day. 
Claim 2: 
Source of the non-essential amino acids 
alanine, arginine, aspartic acid, glutamic 
acid, glycine, proline, serine, tyrosine 
involved in protein synthesis. 
Claim 2: 
Minimum 5 % of each 
specific amino acid 
Mean Intake to a 
maximum of 10 g 
hydrolzed collagen, per 
day. 
Claim 3: 
Source of the essential amino acid lysine to 
help in collagen formation. 
Claim 3: 
Minimum 5 % of the 
Nutrient Reference 
Values (NRVs) to a 
maximum of 10 g 
hydrolyzed collagen, per 
day. 
Claim 4: 
Helps to assist joint health or joint 
inflammation. 
Joint health / inflammation: 
Use of this substance for 5 (five) 
months has been shown to be 
beneficial and therefore its use 
should be undertaken in 
consultation with a relevant 
health care provider. 
Joint health 
/ 
inflammatio
n: 
1,2 – 10 g 
hydrolyzed collagen 
per day. 
 
 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Dosage 
(Bovine) Colostrum 
Foremilk 
Sources: 
Colostrum - Bos taurus 
Note: Sources of 
colostrum should not be 
from hyperimmunized 
cattle. 
Helps to support immune function within the 
upper respiratory tract. 
Assistance with the maintenance of a 
healthy immune system. 
This is not a breast milk substitute. 
Contains lactose and cow's milk 
proteins. If you have a known 
allergy/hypersensitivity to cow's 
milk, do not use this product. 
Do not use in children under 
12 months old except on 
professional health advice. 
For prolonged use, consult a 
relevant health care provider. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use if you: 
• have diabetes or a history of 
cancer; 
• have liver or kidney disease or if 
you have been instructed to 
follow a low protein diet; or 
• suffer from an immune system 
disorder (e.g. Crohn's disease, 
myasthenia gravis, multiple 
sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, 
systemic lupus erythematosus, 
HIV/AIDS, etc.) or if you are 
taking immunosuppressants. 
Minimum: 0,4 g 
Maximum: 10 
g dried 
powder 
Coturnix coturnix 
Quail egg 
Contributes to maintaining normal 
immune responses to seasonal and 
environmental allergens. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use if: 
• 
you are pregnant 
or breastfeeding, 
or 
• 
your symptoms persist or 
worsen. 
Minimum: 26,88 mg 
dried powder 
Maximum: 134,4 mg 
dried powder in 5 
divided doses 
 
 
Contraindication(s): 
 
 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Dosage 
Do not use if you have a (quail) 
egg allergy. 
Known adverse reaction(s) 
Stop use immediately if 
hypersensitivity/allergy occurs or 
if you experience irritation or 
swelling of the 
mouth or throat occurs. 
Green Lipped Mussel 
New Zealand green lipped 
mussel Perna canalicula 
Dried 
For joint health. 
Promotes joint functioning. 
1 150 mg daily 
Royal jelly 
Sources: 
Apis mellifera - secretion 
(Dry, Powder, Non-
Standardised Extracts (Dry 
extract, Tincture, Fluid extract, 
Decoction, Infusion) 
Antioxidant. 
Nutritive 
tonic. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use if you are- 
• 
pregnant or breastfeeding; or 
• 
allergic to bee products, 
poplar tree products, or 
balsam of Peru. 
Contraindication(s): 
Do not use this product if you 
have a history of asthma or 
allergies. 
Known adverse reaction(s) 
Stop use immediately if 
hypersensitivity/allergy occurs or 
if you experience irritation or 
swelling of the mouth or throat 
occurs. 
Antioxidant: 
Not to exceed 6 g 
fresh royal jelly or the 
equivalent thereof 
per day. 
Nutritive tonic: 
0,8 to 6 g fresh royal 
jelly, or the equivalent 
thereof per day. 
 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE I: Allowable levels and claims: Fats, Oils and Fatty Acids 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage ranges. Minimum: Minimum 
Daily 
Levels 
Required for use of Health Supplement Claim Maximum: 
Maximum Daily Levels Permitted as Health Supplement 
SSF: Single substance formulation 
MSF: Multiple substance formulation 
Unless otherwise stated the minimum and maximum dosage applies to adults (> 18 years). Unless otherwise stated the 
dosage form is oral. 
Action: 
Source of essential fatty acids. 
General Statements:  
All Products: 
Store in airtight container, protected from light. 
Do not exceed daily dosage level without consulting a relevant health care provider. Consult a relevant health care provider 
for use beyond 6 months. 
Warnings (as appropriate): 
May contain traces of nut products. Derived from nuts / shellfish / seafood. 
 
Duration of Use: 
If more than one duration of use statement is indicated for a particular product formulation, only the shortest applicable 
duration of use statement is permitted on the labelling. 
Dosage forms by age group: 
Children 2 years: The acceptable dosage forms are limited to emulsion/suspension and solution/drops. 
 
 
Children 3 to 5 years: The acceptable dosage forms are limited to chewables, emulsion/ suspension, powders and 
solution/drops. 
Children 6 to 12 years, Adolescent Children 13 to 17 years, and Adults ≥ 18 years: The acceptable dosage forms 
include, but are not limited to capsules, chewables (e.g. gummies, tablets), liquids, powders, strips or tablets. 
 
Combination rules and restrictions 
 
All plant oils may refer to Essential Fatty Acid Constituents for additional guidance on claims, statements, warnings and dosage values. 
All medicinal ingredients included in this Annexure may be combined with the following restrictions: 
• 
The combined maximum daily dose of oils in a product must not exceed 15,0 g per day. 
• 
Maximum daily doses for individual medicinal ingredient as per the listings apply. 
• 
The combined maximum daily dose of EPA+DHA+DPA in a single product must not exceed 5,0 g per day. 
• 
Maximum daily doses of EPA+DHA+DPA for Schizochytrium Oil apply. 
• 
Maximum daily doses of EPA+DHA+DPA for Krill oil, Fish Oil, and Seal Oil apply. 
• 
Maximum daily doses of EPA+DHA, Vitamin A and Vitamin D for Cod liver oil apply. 
 
Pertinent to all fish/marine oils: 
Maximum levels for certain heavy metals in oils from marine sources: 
All oils from marine sources must comply with the limits set for heavy metals by Commission Regulation (EC) No 
1881/2006 of 19 December 2006, setting the maximum levels for certain contaminants in foodstuff, as amended. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum values of oxidative stability parameters for oils: 
 
Oxidative stability parameter 
Maximum value 
Peroxide value (PV) 
5 mEq/kg 
p-Anisidine value (AV) 
20 
Totox value 
26 (calculated as (2 x PV) + AV) 
These oxidative stability requirements apply to all oil ingredients used in the manufacturing of health supplements. 
 
 
 
Maximum levels of dioxins, dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls (DL PCB) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) in oils from marine 
sources: 
 
Dioxin, DL PCB, and PCB contaminants 
Maximum level 
EU 
1259/2011 
USP 35 
Dioxins (sum of PCDDs + PCDFs)1, 2 
1,75 pg/g 
1,0 pg/g 
Sum of dioxins and DL PCBs1, 3 
6 pg/g 
PCBs 4 
200 ng/g 
0,5 ppm 5 
These contaminant requirements apply to all marine oil ingredients used in the manufacturing of health supplements. 
Footnotes: 
1: Expressed in World Health Organization (WHO) toxic equivalents using WHO-toxic equivalent factors (TEFs). Analytical results relating to 
17 individual dioxin congeners of toxicological concern are expressed in a single quantifiable unit: 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) 
toxic equivalent concentration (TEQ) (USP 35; EU 2011).  
2: Sum of dioxins: WHO-PCDD/F-TEQ (USP 35; EU 2011) 
3: Sum of dioxins and dioxin-like PCBs: WHO-PCDD/F-PCB-TEQ (EU 2011) 
4: Sum of PCB congeners 28, 52, 101, 118, 138, 153 and 180 (USP 35; EU 2011) 
5: Equivalence: 0,5 ppm = 500 ng/g 
 
 
104 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Other Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum 
Maximum 
1. Plant Oils 
Argania 
spinosa kernel 
oil 
Lipofructyl 
argan Argan 
Seed Oil 
Source of 
antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s). 
Annexure B submission required. 
Restrictions 
on
manufacturing: 
The concentration must 
be no more than 5 % in
the product. 
See claim. 
15 g 
Blackcurrant seed oil 
Blackcurrant 
esters Ribes 
nigrum esters 
Ribes nigrum 
(Parts: Seed) 
Dependent on required Fatty 
Acid Constituents. 
Annexure B submission required. 
If you are pregnant or 
breastfeeding, consult a 
relevant health care 
provider prior to use. 
Products not encapsulated: 
Refrigerate after opening. 
See claim. 
10,5 g 
Borage Oil 
Borago 
officinalis L. 
(Boraginaceae
) (Parts: Seed) 
Source of essential fatty 
acids/omega-6 fatty acids/ 
linoleic acid (LA) for the 
maintenance of good health. 
Permitted only if the 
preparation is fixed 
oil derived from the 
seed. 
Oil must be 
demonstrated to be 
free of pyrrolizidine 
alkaloids (PA). 
According 
to EFA 
constituent
s. 
5,0 g 
Oil Fixed 
3,7 g 
5,0 g 
Oil Fixed 
Standardised 
3,7 g 
23 % LA 
18 % GLA 
0,2 % ALA 
5,0 g 
37 % LA 
27 % GLA 
10 % ALA 
Coconut Oil 
Cocos 
nucifera oil 
Copra oil 
Unhydrogenated 
coconut oil Coconut 
oil - fractionated 
Copra oil, 
Provides/source of antioxidants. 
Assists in the maintenance of 
skin health when applied 
topically. 
See claim. 
15 g 
 
 
105 
fractionated 
Coconut oil - 
hydrogenated 
Copra oil, 
hydrogenated 
Medium chain 
triglycerides 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Other Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum 
Maximum 
1. Plant Oils 
Echium oil 
Echium plantagineum oil 
Echium vulgare seed oil 
Source Material(s): Echium 
plantagineum (Parts: Seed ) Annexure B submission required. 
Must be derived only 
from Echium vulgare 
seed. 
See claim. 
Must not 
contain 
more than 1 
mg of the 
equivalent 
dry material. 
Evening Primrose Oil 
Oenothera (species) seed 
oil fixed 
Oenothera biennis (Parts: 
Seed ) 
Source of essential fatty acids 
for the maintenance of good 
health. Source of omega-6 
fatty acids for 
the maintenance of good health. 
Source of linoleic acid for the 
maintenance of good health. 
Must contain the 
following fatty acids 
in the stipulated 
ranges: 
• 
7 to 14 % 
gamma-
Linolenic acid 
• 
65 to 85 % 
Linoleic 
acid 
Vitamin E is an optional 
medicinal ingredient in 
evening primrose oil 
products. See also 
Vitamin E in the 
Vitamin Annexures. 
1 300 mg 
6 000 mg 
 
 
106 
False flax oil 
Big-seed false flax False flax 
Myragrum sativum Camelina 
sativa (Parts: Seed) 
Dependent on required Fatty 
Acid Constituents. 
Annexure B submission required. 
Products not encapsulated: 
Refrigerate after opening. 
See claim. 
15 g 
Flaxseed Oil 
Group 1: 
Products not encapsulated: 
Group 1 
Claim: 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Other Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum 
Maximum 
1. Plant Oils 
 
Linseed oil 
Linum usitatissimum seed oil 
(Linaceae) – seed 
Source of essential fatty acids 
for the maintenance of good 
health. 
Source of omega-3 fatty acids 
for the maintenance of good 
health. 
Source of alpha-linolenic acid 
(ALA) for the maintenance of good 
health. 
Refrigerate after opening. 
Doses indicated relate 
to seed oil. 
2 to 4 
years: 
0,04 g / 
0,17 ml 
2 to 4 
years: 
5,33 g / 
5,67 ml 
 
 
5 to 9 
years: 
0,06 g / 
0,25 ml 
5 to 9 
years: 
8 g / 
8,5 ml 
 
 
10 to 14 
years: 
0,12 g / 
0,5 ml 
10 to 
14 
years: 
16 g / 
 
 
107 
17 ml 
 
 
15 and 
over: 
0,23 g / 
1 ml 
15 and 
over: 
32 g / 
34 ml 
 
Group 2: 
Source of omega-6 fatty acids 
for the maintenance of good 
health. 
Source of linoleic acid (LA) for 
the maintenance of good 
health. 
Group 2 
Claim: 
 
 
 
2 to 4 
years: 
1,28 g / 
1,33 ml 
2 to 4 years: 
5,33 g / 
5,67 ml 
 
 
5 to 9 
years: 
1,93 g / 
2 ml 
5 to 9 
years: 
8 g / 8,5 ml 
 
 
10 to 14 
years: 
3,85 g / 
4 ml 
10 to 
14 
years: 
16 g / 17 ml 
 
 
15 and 
over: 
7,7 g / 
8 ml 
15 and 
over: 
32 g / 
34 ml 
Hemp Seed Oil 
Cannabis sativa Seed Oil 
Source of antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s). 
If you are pregnant or 
breastfeeding, consult a 
Processed product made 
from cannabis 
See claim. 15 g 
 
 
108 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum 
Maximum 
1. Plant Oils 
(Parts: Seed) 
Refer to Fatty Acid Constituents. 
relevant health care 
provider prior to use. 
Products not encapsulated: 
Refrigerate after opening. 
seeds containing 
not more than: 
a. 10 mg/kg (0,001 
%) of 
tetrahydrocannabi
nol and does not 
contain whole
 
cannabi
s seeds; and 
b.   75 mg/kg
 
(0,0075 
percent) 
 
of 
cannabidiol (CBD). 
Olive oil 
Olea europaea (Parts: Fruit) 
Source of 
antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s). 
Refer to Fatty Acid Constituents. 
15 g 
Pumpkin Seed Oil 
Pumpkin seed oil 
Cucurbita pepo seed 
oil (Parts: Seed) 
Source of 
antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s). 
Contributes to prostate 
gland health. 
Source of phytosterols. 
Dependent on required Fatty 
Acid Constituents. 
Only Cucurbita 
pepo seed oil fixed 
is permitted. 
See claim. 
15 g 
Safflower Oil 
Carthamus tinctorius 
oil (Parts: Seed) 
Dependent on required Fatty 
Acid Constituents. 
Annexure B submission required. 
See claim. 
15 g 
 
 
109 
Sea buckthorn 
oil (omega-7) 
Dependent on required Fatty 
Acid Constituents. 
If you are pregnant 
or breastfeeding, 
consult a 
See claim. 
5 g 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110 
 
 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum 
Maximum 
1. Plant Oils 
Hippophae rhamnoides 
var. procera 
• Sallowthorn 
• Sea buckthorn 
• Sea-buckthorn 
• Shaji 
(Parts:Seed
) 
Annexure B submission required. 
relevant health care 
provider prior to use. 
Products not encapsulated: 
Refrigerate after opening. 
Wheat Germ Oil 
Oil of wheat germ 
Triticum aestivum seed 
(grain) embryo (germ) oil 
fixed 
Wheat oils 
(Parts: Seed germ ) 
Source of 
antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s). 
Dependent on required Fatty 
Acid Constituents. 
Annexure B submission required. 
Wheat germ 
glycerides to be used 
as excipient: Gluten is 
a mandatory 
component of this 
ingredient when the 
route of 
administration is other 
than topical and 
mucosal. 
See claim. 
15 g 
 
 
111 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum Maximum 
2. Marine Oils 
Algal oil 
DHA/EPA rich 
Schizochytrium algal oil 
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) 
and eicosapentaenoic acid 
(EPA) rich oil derived from 
microalgae Schizochytrium 
sp. 
Genus Species: 
Crypthecodinium 
cohnii Nannochloropsis 
oculata Schizochytrium 
spp. 
(Parts: Whole) 
Helps to support cognitive 
health and/or brain function. 
Products not encapsulated: 
Refrigerate after opening. 
For DHA/EPA rich 
Schizochytrium 
algal oil: 
Permitted only in 
products for oral 
use. 
The ratio of DHA to 
EPA must be 2:1, and 
must be present in 
combination with 
other ingredients. 
A 
quantity 
of oil 
providin
g no less 
than 
200 mg 
DHA/d
ay 
A 
quantity 
of oil 
providin
g no less 
than 
2 000 
mg 
DHA/da
y. 
Cod Liver Oil 
Oleum morrhuae 
Lecoris Aselli 
Oleum Source: 
Liver of Atlantic cod, 
Gadus morhua L. 
(Gadidae) 
Liver of Greenland 
cod, Gadus ogac 
Richardson (Gadidae) 
Liver of Pacific cod, 
Gadus macrocephalus 
Tilesius (Gadidae) 
Liver from Arctic cod, 
Arctogadus glacialis 
Peters (1872) (Gadidae) 
Liver from all species 
of Gadidae (Cod 
family) (Parts: Liver) 
Helps to support cognitive 
health and/or brain function 
For products providing 
daily doses of vitamin A at 
or above the RDA or AI 
(adjusted for the life 
stage groups): 
Source of vitamin A, a factor 
in the maintenance of good 
health. 
For products providing 
daily doses of vitamin D at 
or above the RDA or AI 
(adjusted for the life 
stage groups): 
Source of vitamin D, a factor 
in the maintenance of good 
health. 
Products not encapsulated: 
Refrigerate after opening. 
If vitamin A is 
claimed as a 
component then the 
ingredient must 
conform to the BP 
monograph for cod-
liver oil. 
Vitamin 
A 
and 
D 
levels not to exceed 
stipulated 
doses 
as 
indicated in the 
Vitamin Annexures. 
0 to 3 
years 
0,83 ml / 
0,77 g 
0 to 3 years 
0,87 ml / 
0,80 g 
4 to 8 
years 
0,83 ml / 
0,77 g 
4 to 8years 
1,3 ml / 
1,2 g 
9 to 13 
years 
0,83 ml / 
0,77 g 
9 to 13 
years 
2,4 ml / 
2,2 g 
14 to 
18 years 
0,83 ml / 
0,77 g 
14 to 18 
years 
4,0 ml / 
 
 
112 
For products providing 
138 to 1 500 μg retinol 
activity 
3,7 g 
> 18 years 
0,83 ml / 
0,77 g 
> 18 years 
4,3 ml / 
4,0 g 
 
 
113 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum Maximum 
2. Marine Oils 
equivalents 
(RAE) 
(μg 
vitamin A/all-trans retinol 
(palmitate)), per day: 
Refer to Annexure E for 
Vitamin A related claims. 
For products providing 
1,15 to 25 μg vitamin D3 
(cholecalciferol), per day: 
Helps in the development and 
maintenance of bones and 
teeth. 
Helps in the absorption and 
use of calcium and 
phosphorus. 
Source of vitamin D, a factor 
in the maintenance of good 
health. 
For products providing 100 to 
1 360 mg eicosapentaenoic 
acid (EPA) + docosahexaenoic 
acid (DHA), per day: 
Source of omega-3 fatty acids 
for the maintenance of good 
health. 
Source of eicosapentaenoic 
acid (EPA) and 
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) 
for the maintenance of good 
health. 
For products providing 100 
 
 
114 
to1 360 mg EPA + DHA 
including at least 100 mg 
DHA, per day: 
Helps support cognitive 
health and/or brain 
function. 
 
 
115 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum Maximum 
2. Marine Oils 
For products providing 150 to 
1 360 mg EPA + DHA 
including at least 150 mg 
DHA, per day + DHA: 
Helps support the 
development of the brain, eyes 
and nerves in 
children up to 12 years of age. 
Fish oil 
Ammodytidae - 
Whole Carangidae - 
Whole Clupeidae - 
Whole Engraulidae - 
Whole Osmeridae - 
Whole Salmonidae - 
Whole Scombridae - 
Whole 
Note: The above 
corresponds to oil from the 
body of one or more of the 
stated species in its natural 
triglyceride/triacylglycerol 
form and/or its concentrated 
esterified form. 
For products providing 100 to 
3 000 mg Eicosapentaenoic 
acid 
+ Docosahexaenoic acid, 
per day: 
Source of omega-3 fatty acids 
for the maintenance of good 
health. Source of 
eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) 
and 
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) 
for the maintenance of good 
health. 
For products providing 200 to 
3 000 mg Eicosapentaenoic 
Active: 
Concentrated omega-3 
triglycerides-fish (only for 
oral use). 
Products not encapsulated: 
Refrigerate after opening. 
The potencies of 
vitamin A, vitamin D 
and/or EPA+DHA, in 
addition to the level of 
Fish liver oil, must be 
indicated on the 
product registration 
application and label. 
Concentrated fish 
oil (ethyl esters): 
Icosapent 
(all-Z)-5,8,11,14,17- 
Eicosapentaenoic 
acid 
Eicosapentaenoic 
acid EPA 
If health claims are 
made for vitamin A or 
colecalciferol (vitamin 
D), refer to the 
restrictions for vitamin A 
or colecalciferol. 
Vitamin A and D levels 
not to exceed 
stipulated doses as 
indicated in the 
Vitamin Annexures. 
Oil fixed standardised 
100 mg 
3 000 mg 
 
 
116 
acid 
+ Docosahexaenoic acid and 
containing a ratio of 
Eicosapentaenoic acid: 
Docosahexaenoic acid 
between 0,5:1 and 2:1, per 
day: 
Helps 
maintain/support 
cardiovascular 
health 
For products providing 1 000 
to 
3 000 mg Eicosapentaenoic 
acid 
+ Docosahexaenoic acid 
and containing a ratio of 
Eicosapentaenoic acid: 
Fish oil fatty acid 
Icosapentaenoic 
acid Timnodonic 
acid 
Consult a relevant 
health care provider 
before use if you 
suffer from a 
bleeding disorder, 
take blood- thinning 
medicines or are 
asthmatic with 
sensitivity to aspirin. 
of Eicosapentaenoic 
acid 
+ 
Docosahexaenoic acid 
per day. 
 
 
117 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum Maximum 
2. Marine Oils 
Docosahexaenoic acid 
between 0,5:1 and 2:1, per 
day: 
Helps to reduce serum 
triglycerides/triacylglyce
rols 
For products providing 2 800 
to 3 000 mg Eicosapentaenoic 
acid + Docosahexaenoic acid 
and containing a ratio of 
Eicosapentaenoic acid: 
Docosahexaenoic acid 
between 0,5:1 and 2:1, per 
day: 
In conjunction with 
conventional therapy, helps to 
reduce the pain of rheumatoid 
arthritis in adults 
For products providing 100 to 
3 000 mg Eicosapentaenoic 
acid 
+ Docosahexaenoic acid, 
including at least 100 mg 
Docosahexaenoic acid, per 
day: Helps support cognitive 
health and/or brain function 
For products providing 150 to 
2 000 mg Eicosapentaenoic 
acid 
+ Docosahexaenoic acid, 
 
 
118 
including at least 150 mg 
Docosahexaenoic acid, per 
day: Helps support the 
development of the brain, eyes 
and nerves in children up to 
12 years of age 
 
 
119 
 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum Maximum 
2. Marine Oils 
For products providing 1 500 
to 
3 000 mg Eicosapentaenoic 
acid 
+ Docosahexaenoic acid and 
containing a ratio of 
Eicosapentaenoic acid: 
Docosahexaenoic acid between 
1.75:1 and 2:1, including at 
least 
1 000 mg Eicosapentaenoic 
acid, per day: 
Helps to promote healthy 
mood balance 
 
 
120 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum Maximum 
2. Marine Oils 
Fish Liver Oil 
Sources: 
Ammodytida
e Carangidae 
Clupeidae 
Engraulida
e 
Osmeridae 
Salmonida
e 
Scombrida
e 
See also Cod Liver Oil. 
SSF: Annexure B submission 
required. 
MSF: See 3.2.2 of This Guideline. 
See also Cod Liver Oil. 
The potencies of vitamin A, 
vitamin D and/or 
EPA+DHA, in addition to 
the dose of Fish liver oil, 
must be indicated on the 
product application and 
label. 
See also Cod Liver Oil. 
The peroxide, 
anisidine, and totox 
values, as well as the 
dioxin, 
polychlorinated 
dibenzo- para-dioxin 
(PCDD) and 
polychlorinated 
dibenzofuran (PCDF), 
the dioxin-like 
polychlorinated 
biphenyl (DL PCB), 
and the 
polychlorinated 
biphenyl (PCB) 
contaminants of fish 
liver oil and omega- 3 
fatty acids derived 
from fish liver oil 
must be in 
accordance with the 
Cod Liver Oil entry. 
See also Cod Liver Oil. 
If health claims are 
made for vitamin A or 
colecalciferol (vitamin 
D), refer to the 
restrictions for vitamin 
A or colecalciferol. 
Vitamin A and D 
levels not to exceed 
stipulated doses as 
indicated in the 
Vitamin Annexures. 
 
 
121 
Halibut Liver Oil 
Hippoglossus 
hippoglossus Atlantic 
halibut 
See Fish Liver Oil / Cod Liver Oil. 
If health claims are 
made for vitamin A or 
cholecalciferol (vitamin 
D), refer to the 
restrictions for vitamin 
A or cholecalciferol. 
Vitamin A and D 
levels not to exceed 
stipulated 
 
 
122 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum Maximum 
2. Marine Oils 
doses as indicated in 
the Vitamin 
Annexures. 
Krill oil 
Euphausia pacifica 
(north pacific krill) 
(Parts: Whole) 
Euphausia superba 
oil (Antartica krill) 
Euphausia superba 
(Parts: Whole) 
Source of omega-3 fatty acids 
for the maintenance of good 
health. 
Source of eicosapentaenoic acid 
(EPA) and docosahexaenoic 
acid (DHA) for the maintenance 
of good health. 
Contains crustacean 
shellfish. [OR] Derived from 
seafood. 
Hypersensitivity/allergy 
has been known to occur 
(with shellfish); if this 
occurs, discontinue. 
If you are pregnant or 
breastfeeding, consult a 
relevant health care 
provider prior to use. 
Products not encapsulated: 
Refrigerate after opening. 
- 
4,1 g 
including at least 100 
mg Eicosapentaenoic 
acid 
+ 
Docosahexaenoic acid 
Pollack-liver oil 
Theragra 
chalcogramma Alaska 
pollock 
Pacific pollock 
wall-eye 
pollock whiting 
(Parts: Whole) 
Pollack-liver oil 
(cont…) 
See Fish Oil. 
Derived from seafood. 
If health claims are 
made for vitamin A or 
cholecalciferol (vitamin 
D), refer to the 
restrictions for vitamin 
A or cholecalciferol. 
Vitamin A and D 
levels not to exceed 
stipulated 
doses as indicated in 
the Vitamin 
Annexures. 
 
 
123 
Salmon Oil 
Oncorhynchus gobuscha 
Oncorhynchus nerka 
Oncorhynchus 
tshawytscha 
Salmo salar 
See Fish Oil. 
See Fish Oil. 
 
 
124 
Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum Maximum 
2. Marine Oils 
Squid oil 
Todarodes pacificus - 
whole Docidicus gigas - 
whole Illex argentinus - 
whole 
Illex illecebrosus - whole 
Dependent on required Fatty 
Acid Constituents. 
SSF: Annexure B submission 
required. 
MSF: See 3.2.2 of This Guideline. 
Derived from seafood. 
If you are pregnant or 
breastfeeding, consult a 
relevant health care 
provider prior to use. 
Hypersensitivity/allergy 
has been known to occur 
(with shellfish); if this 
occurs, discontinue use. 
Products not encapsulated: 
Refrigerate after opening. 
Must be derived only 
from species of the 
order Teuthida of the 
class Cephalopoda 
AND be in 
combination with 
other ingredients in 
the product. 
See claim. 
5 g 
Tuna fish 
oil/Skipjack liver 
oil 
See Fish Oil. 
The ingredient must 
conform to the BP 
monograph for fish 
oils. 
If health claims are made 
for vitamin A or 
cholecalciferol (vitamin 
D), refer to the 
restrictions for vitamin A 
or cholecalciferol. 
Vitamin A and D levels 
not to exceed stipulated 
doses as indicated in the 
Vitamin Annexures. 
 
 
125 
Fat / Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimu
m 
Maximu
m 
3. Other Fats or Oils 
Emu oil 
Dromiceius oil 
Dromaius 
novaehollandiae (Parts: 
Fat) 
A source of polyunsaturated 
and monounsaturated fatty 
acids. 
Must be derived 
only from Dromaius 
ovaehollandiae. 
See claim. 
Lecithin 
Lecithin 
- 
hydrogenated 
Hydrogenated 
egg 
yolk phospholipids 
Lecithin liquid - soy 
phosphatidylserine-enriched 
soy Lecithin powder - soy 
phosphatidylserine-enriched 
soy Soy phosphatidylserine-
enriched soy lecithin liquid 
1,2-Diacylglycero-3- 
phosphocholine 
Helps to support liver function. 
The concentration 
must not exceed 5 % 
(hydrogenated 
lecithin). The 
concentration of soy 
phosphatidylserine 
must not exceed 15 %. 
1 g 
6 g 
Sub-ingredients: Choline; Phosphatidic acids, Phosphatidylethanolamin, Phosphatidylinositol 
Source Material: Brassica napus (Parts: Seed); Glycine max (Parts: Seed); Helianthus annuus (Parts: Seed); Salmo salar (Parts: Egg) 
Source Ingredients: Soya Oil 
Phospholipids 
Pending relevant 
scheduling 
amendment. 
Annexure B submission 
required. 
Omega-3 
phospholipids
: 
See claim. 
See claim. 
Phospholipids 
(egg, milk and 
soy): 
Permitted only in 
products for 
external use. 
The concentration 
must not exceed 
20%. 
 
 
126 
Source Material: Clupea harengus (Parts: Egg); Euphausia superba (Parts: Whole); Helianthus annuus (Parts: Seed); Pandalus borealis (Parts: Internal shell); Squid oil Squid 
(Parts: Whole) 
Phosphatidylcholine 
See Lecithin. 
See claim. 
 
 
127 
Fat / Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimu
m 
Maximu
m 
3. Other Fats or Oils 
Phosphatidylserine 
1,2-diacyl-sn-glycerol-(3)-
L- phosphoserine 
phosphatidyl serine 
phosphotidylserine 
Helps to support cognitive 
health and/or brain function. 
Claim 
applies to 
a 
minimum 
daily level 
of 300 
mg. 
600 mg 
Soy 
phosphatidylserine 
Soy phosphatidylserine 
-enriched soy 
lecithin 
liquid/powder 
Helps to support cognitive 
health and/or brain function. 
Products for internal use 
from soya origin: Contains 
soya. 
The concentration of 
soy 
phosphatidylserine 
must not exceed 15%. 
Phytosterols 
Including: 
Plant 
sterols 
Plant sterol 
esters Plant 
stanol esters 
Plant 
sterols/stanols 
contribute to the maintenance 
of healthy blood cholesterol 
levels. 
This product is not 
intended for people 
who do not need to 
control their blood 
cholesterol level 
In order to bear the 
claim for contribution 
to the maintenance of 
normal blood 
cholesterol levels, 
information shall be 
given to the consumer 
that the beneficial 
effect is obtained with 
a daily intake of at 
least 0,8 g of plant 
sterols/stanols. 
"Phytosterols" must be 
standardized to one or 
more of these specific 
sub-ingredients in order 
to 
support the claim. 
 
 
128 
Sub-ingredients: Free plant stanols , Plant stanol esters , Plant sterol esters 
Source material: Cissus quadrangularis (Parts: Leaf); Cissus quadrangularis (Parts: Stem); Helianthus annuus (Parts: Seed); Oil of vegetable (Parts: Seed); Phleum pratense 
(Parts: Pollen); Pinus elliottii (Parts: Trunk bark oleogum resin); Pinus taeda (Parts: Trunk bark oleogum resin); Pinus pinaster (Parts:Trunk); Prunus africana (Parts: Stem bark); 
Prunus africana (Parts: Trunk bark); Secale cereale (Parts: Pollen); Zea mays (Parts: Pollen) 
Plant sterols 
Free plant 
sterols 
Phytosterols 
Helps maintain 
healthy cholesterol 
levels. 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
you 
are 
pregnant 
or 
breastfeeding. 
This product is not 
intended for people 
who do not need to 
control 
Adult dose(s): 
0,74 g 
3 g 
including at least 80 % 
Combined beta-
Sitosterol, 
 
 
129 
Fat / Oil 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimu
m 
Maximu
m 
3. Other Fats or Oils 
Directions For Use: 
With food 
their blood cholesterol 
level 
campesterol and 
Stigmasterol per 
day 
Plant sterols support the 
functioning of the immune 
system. 
20 mg 
3 g 
Source Material: Arachis hypogaea (Whole); Brassica napus (Whole); Glycine max (Seed); Gossypium herbaceum (Seed); Olea europaea (Whole); Secale cereale (Whole); 
Triticum aestivum (Whole); Zea mays (Whole) 
Sub-ingredients: beta-Sitosterol , Campesterol , Combined beta-Sitosterol, Campesterol and Stigmasterol , Stigmasterol 
Plant sterol esters 
Helps maintain 
healthy cholesterol 
levels. 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
you 
are 
pregnant 
or 
breastfeeding. 
Directions For Use: 
With food 
This product is not 
intended for people 
who do not need to 
control their blood 
cholesterol level. 
Adult dose(s): 
0,8 g 
4,8 g 
including at least 80 % 
Combined beta-Sitosterol, 
Campesterol and 
Stigmasterol 
per day 
Plant sterols support the 
functioning of the immune 
system. 
20 mg 
4,8 g 
Source Material: As for plant sterols. 
Plant stanol esters 
Helps maintain 
healthy cholesterol 
levels. 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
you 
are 
pregnant 
or 
breastfeeding 
Directions For Use: 
With food 
This product is not 
intended for people 
who do not need to 
control their blood 
cholesterol 
level. 
Adult dose(s): 
1,8 g 
5,1 g 
including at least 80 % 
combined Sitostanol 
and campestanol per 
day 
Plant stanols support the 
functioning of the immune 
system. 
20 mg 
5,1 g 
Source Material: As for plant sterols. 
 
 
130 
Fatty Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimu
m 
Maximum 
4. Fatty Acid Constituents 
Included to guide recommended use for oils and fats based on FA content. Levels, if not stated, must be determined by source material otherwise Annex. B submission 
required. 
Alpha-Linolenic 
Acid (ALA) 
Linolenic acid 
(9Z,12Z,15Z)-
9,12,15- 
octadecatrienoic 
acid cis,cis,cis-
9,12,15- 
octadecatrienoic 
acid 
Source of alpha-linolenic 
acid 
(ALA) 
for 
the 
maintenance 
of 
good 
health. 
Source of omega-3 fatty acid 
for the maintenance of good 
health. Source of an essential 
fatty acid for the maintenance 
of good 
health. 
80 mg 
As for 
source
. 
ALA contributes to the 
maintenance of healthy 
blood cholesterol levels 
Information shall be 
given to the 
consumer that the 
beneficial effect is 
obtained with a daily 
intake of 2 g of ALA. 
2 g 
As for 
source
. 
Source ingredients: Borago officinalis (Parts: Seed); Buglossoides arvensis (Parts: Seed); Cannabis sativa (Parts: Seed); Echium plantagineum (Parts: Seed); Linum 
usitatissimum (Parts: 
Seed); Oenothera biennis (Parts: Seed); Perilla frutescens (Parts: Seed); Plukenetia volubilis (Parts: Seed); Ribes nigrum (Parts: Fruit); Rubus idaeus (Parts: Seed); Salvia hispanica 
(Parts: Seed); Salvia sclarea (Parts: Seed); Vaccinium macrocarpon (Parts: Seed) 
Linoleic acid (LA) 
(Z,Z,)-9,12-
Octadecadienoic acid 
9,12-Linoleic 
acid alpha-
Linoleic acid 
cis,cis-9,12-Octadecadienoic 
acid 
Linolic acid 
Source of linoleic acid (LA) for 
the maintenance of good 
health. 
Source of omega-6 fatty acid 
for the maintenance of good 
health. 
Source of an essential fatty 
acid for the maintenance of 
good health. 
850 mg 
As for 
source
. 
 
 
131 
Linoleic acid contributes to 
the maintenance of normal 
blood cholesterol levels. 
The claim may be 
used only when 
source provides at 
least 1,5 g of linoleic 
acid (LA) per 
100 g and per 100 
kcal. 
Information shall be 
given to the consumer 
that the beneficial 
effect is obtained with 
a daily 
intake of 10 g of LA. 
Essential fatty acids are 
needed for normal growth 
and development of children. 
Information 
to 
the 
consumer 
that 
the 
beneficial effect 
is 
 
 
132 
Fatty Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum Maximu
m 
4. Fatty Acid Constituents 
Included to guide recommended use for oils and fats based on FA content. Levels, if not stated, must be determined by source material otherwise Annex. B submission 
required. 
obtained with a daily 
intake of 2 g of -
linolenic acid (ALA) and 
a daily intake of 10 g 
of linoleic 
acid (LA). 
Source Material: Borago officinalis (Parts: Seed); Cannabis sativa (Parts: Seed); Carthamus tinctorius (Parts: Seed); Cucurbita pepo (Parts: Seed); Echium plantagineum (Parts: 
Seed); Helianthus annuus (Parts: Seed); Linum usitatissimum (Parts: Seed); Nigella sativa (Parts: Seed); Oenothera biennis (Parts: Seed); Perilla frutescens (Parts: Seed); Persea 
Americana 
(Parts: Fruit); Plukenetia volubilis (Parts: Seed); Ribes nigrum (Parts: Fruit); Rubus idaeus (Parts: Seed); Salvia hispanica (Parts: Seed); Vaccinium macrocarpon (Parts: Seed); 
Vitis vinifera 'Chardonnay'  (Parts: Seed); Vitis vinifera (Parts: Seed) 
ALA + LA 
Source of essential fatty acids 
for the maintenance of good 
health. 
80 mg ALA 
850 mg LA 
As for 
source. 
Alpha-lipoic acid 
R-alpha lipoic acid 
(+)-1,2-Dithiolane-3-
pentanoic acid 
1,2-Dithiolane-3-valeric 
acid Lipoic acid 
Thioctic acid, d 
form 2 forms: 
(±)-1,2-Dithiolane-3-
pentanoic acid 
DL-alpha-Lipoic 
acid AND 
(+)-alpha-Lipoic 
acid R-alpha-Lipoic 
acid 
Provides antioxidants for 
the maintenance of good 
health 
Helps to promote healthy 
glucose metabolism 
If you are pregnant or 
breastfeeding, consult a 
relevant health care 
provider prior to use. 
Consumers should 
discontinue use and consult 
a relevant health care 
provider if they experience 
symptoms of low blood 
sugar such as sweating, 
paleness, chills, headache, 
dizziness and/or confusion. 
If you have diabetes, 
consult a relevant 
health care provider 
prior to use 
As for 
source
. 
. 
600 mg 
Arachidonic Acid 
Arachidonic acid 
 5,8,11,14-Eicosatetraenoic 
acid   
 Icosa-5,8,11,14-tetraenoic acid 
Annexure B submission 
required. 
Permitted only in 
products for 
external use. 
See claim. 
 
 
133 
Caprylic Acid 
Caprylic/capric triglyceride 
Capric acid, triglyceride 
Glycerin/caprylic/capric 
triester 
Miglyol 
Annexure B submission 
required. 
Permitted only in 
products for 
external use. 
See claim. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
134 
Fatty Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum Maximum 
4. Fatty Acid Constituents 
Included to guide recommended use for oils and fats based on FA content. Levels, if not stated, must be determined by source material otherwise Annex. B submission 
required. 
Octanoic/decanoic acid 
triglyceride 
Octanoic acid 
The concentration 
must not exceed 2 %. 
Source materials: Cocos nucifera (Parts: Seed endosperm) 
Source ingredients: Calcium caprylate; Magnesium caprylate; Zinc caprylate 
Conjugated 
Linoleic acid (CLA) 
May help to support a modest 
improvement to body 
composition when used with a 
program of reduced intake of 
dietary calories and increased 
physical activity 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
you are obese or have 
cardiovascular disease 
(CVD) risk factors (e.g. high 
blood pressure, high 
cholesterol and/or 
triglycerides) 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
you 
are 
pregnant 
or 
breastfeeding 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
your goal is to achieve 
weight loss. 
Contraindication(s): 
Do not use if you 
have cardiovascular 
disease, diabetes, 
metabolic syndrome 
or insulin resistance. 
Known Adverse 
Reaction(s): 
Some people 
may experience 
gastrointestinal upset. 
Annexure 
B 
submissio
n 
5 g 
Pertinent 
to the 
claim: 3 g 
Dihomo-
gamma- 
linolenic acid 
all-cis-8,11,14-Eicosatrienoic 
acid 
DGLA 
Annexure B submission 
required. 
See claim. 
 
 
135 
Docosahexaenoic 
Acid (DHA) 
(4Z,7Z,10Z,13Z,16Z,19Z)- 
4,7,10,13,16,19- 
Docosahexaenoic acid 
Source of docosahexaenoic acid 
(DHA) for the maintenance of 
good health. 
In order to bear the 
claim information shall 
be given to the 
consumer that the 
beneficial effect is 
obtained with a daily 
intake of 
100 mg of DHA. 
 
 
136 
Fatty Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimu
m 
Maximum 
4. Fatty Acid Constituents 
Included to guide recommended use for oils and fats based on FA content. Levels, if not stated, must be determined by source material otherwise Annex. B submission 
required. 
Doconexent 
DHA contributes to 
maintenance of normal brain 
function. 
The claim may be used 
when the source 
contains at least 40 mg 
of DHA per 100 g and 
per 100 kcal. 
In order to bear the 
claim information shall 
be given to the 
consumer that the 
beneficial effect is 
obtained with a daily 
intake of 
250 mg of DHA. 
DHA contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
blood triglyceride levels. 
The claim may be 
used only when a 
daily intake of 2 g of 
DHA is provided and 
contains DHA in 
combination with 
eicosapentaenoic 
acid (EPA). 
When the claim is used 
information shall also 
be given to consumers 
not to exceed a 
supplemental daily 
intake of 5 g of EPA 
and DHA combined. 
DHA contributes to the 
maintenance of normal 
vision. 
The claim may be 
used only for sources 
which contain at least 
40 mg of DHA per 100 
g and per 100 kcal. 
In order to bear the 
claim information shall 
be given to the 
consumer that the 
beneficial effect is 
obtained with a daily 
intake of 
250 mg of DHA. 
DHA 
maternal 
intake 
contributes 
to the 
normal 
development of the eye of the 
foetus and breastfed infants. 
Minimum: 
EPA + DHA = 250 
mg DHA = 200 mg 
Source Material: Arctocephalus pusillus (Parts: Blubber); Arctogadus glacialis (Parts: Liver); Clupea harengus (Parts: Egg); Clupea harengus (Parts: Fish semen); Cod Liver Oil 
fish (Parts: Liver); Crypthecodinium cohnii (Parts: Whole); Cystophora cristata (Parts: Blubber); Erignathus barbatus (Parts: Blubber); Euphausia pacifica (Parts: Whole); 
Euphausia superba (Parts: Whole); fish oil fish (Parts: Whole); Gadus macrocephalus (Parts: Liver); Gadus morhua (Parts: Liver); Gadus ogac (Parts: Liver); Halichoerus grypus 
(Parts: Blubber); Illex illecebrosus (Parts: Whole); Mytilus edulis (Parts: Whole); Pagophilus groenlandicus (Parts: Blubber); Pandalus borealis (Parts: Internal shell); Pandalus 
borealis (Parts: Whole); Phoca vitulina (Parts: Blubber); Pusa hispida (Parts: Blubber); Schizochytrium spp. (Parts: Whole); Shark (Parts: Liver); Squid oil Squid (Parts: Whole); 
Theragra chalcogramma (Parts: Liver); Theragra chalcogramma (Parts: Whole); Thunnus thynnus (Parts: Whole); Ulkenia amoeboidea (Parts: Whole); Ulkenia spp. (Parts: Whole) 
Source Ingredients: Omega-3 acid ethyl ester; Omega-3 Fatty acids 
 
 
137 
Docosapentaenoic 
acid (DPA) 
(all-Z)-7,10,13,16,19- 
Docosapentaenoic 
acid cis-
7,10,13,16,19- 
Docosapentaenoic acid 
Source of docosapentaenoic 
acid (DPA) for the 
maintenance of good health. 
100 mg 
As for 
source
. 
 
 
138 
Fatty Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimum 
Maximum 
4. Fatty Acid Constituents 
Included to guide recommended use for oils and fats based on FA content. Levels, if not stated, must be determined by source material otherwise Annex. B submission 
required. 
Source material: Arctocephalus pusillus (Parts: Blubber); Cystophora cristata (Parts: Blubber); Erignathus barbatus (Parts: Blubber); Halichoerus grypus (Parts: Blubber); 
Pagophilus 
groenlandicus (Parts: Blubber); Phoca vitulina (Parts: Blubber); Pusa hispida (Parts: Blubber) 
Eicosapentaenoic 
Acid (EPA) 
Icosapent (ethyl 
ester) (all-Z)-
5,8,11,14,17- 
Eicosapentaenoic 
acid EPA 
Fish oil fatty acid 
Icosapentaenoic 
acid Timnodonic 
acid 
Source of eicosapentaenoic 
acid (EPA) for the 
maintenance of good health. 
Products not encapsulated: 
Refrigerate after opening. 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider before use if 
you have a sensitivity to 
aspirin or high blood 
pressure 
 
 
 
 
100 mg 
As for 
source. 
DHA + DPA + EPA 
Source of omega-3 fatty acids 
for the maintenance of good 
health. 
As for any 
constituent 
contained therein. 
As for any 
constituent 
contained 
therein. 
100 mg 
of the 
combination 
thereof. 
As for 
source. 
DHA + EPA 
Helps support/maintain 
(normal) 
heart/cardiovascular 
health/function. 
As for any 
constituent 
contained therein. 
As for any 
constituent 
contained 
therein. 
250 mg 
of the 
combination 
thereof. 
As for 
source. 
Helps to support/maintain 
normal serum/blood 
triglyceride/triacylglycerol 
levels. 
2 g 
of the 
combination 
thereof. 
As for 
source. 
 
 
139 
gamma-Linolenic 
acid (GLA) 
Gamolenic acid 
(6Z,9Z,12Z)-
6,9,12- 
Octadecatrienoic 
acid cis-6,cis-9,cis-
12- 
Octadecatrienoic 
acid 
Source of gamma-linoleic acid. 
 
 
100 mg 
As for 
source. 
Source materials: Arthrospira platensis (Parts: Whole); Borago officinalis (Parts: Seed); Carthamus tinctorius (Parts: Seed); Echium plantagineum (Parts: Seed); Oenothera 
biennis (Parts: 
Seed); Ribes nigrum (Parts: Seed) 
 
 
140 
Fatty Acid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) Other 
Instructions/ 
Directives 
Minimu
m 
Maximum 
4. Fatty Acid Constituents 
Included to guide recommended use for oils and fats based on FA content. Levels, if not stated, must be determined by source material otherwise Annex. B submission 
required. 
Oleic acid (OA) 
(Z)-octadec-9-enoic 
acid 9-octadecenoic 
acid butter acids 
cis-oleic acid 
medium chain fatty 
acids omega-9 Fatty 
Acids 
Source of oleic acid. 
100 mg 
As for 
source
. 
Omega-3 fatty 
acids without 
EPA/DHA 
For the maintenance of 
good health. 
As per source. 
See claim. 
As per 
source. 
Arctogadus glacialis (Parts: Liver); Cod Liver Oil fish (Parts: Liver); Gadus macrocephalus (Parts: Liver); Gadus morhua (Parts: Liver); Gadus ogac (Parts: Liver) 
Omega-6 fatty acids 
As per source. 
See claim. 
As per source. 
Borago officinalis (Parts: Seed); Buglossoides arvensis (Parts: Seed); Hippophae rhamnoides (Parts: Fruit); Linum usitatissimum (Parts: Seed); Oenothera biennis (Parts: Seed); 
Persea Americana (Parts: Fruit); Plukenetia volubilis (Parts: Seed); Vitis vinifera (Parts: Seed) 
Omega-7 fatty acids 
Hippophae 
rhamnoides (Parts: 
Fruit) 
As per source. 
See claim. 
As per 
source. 
Omega-9 fatty acids 
As per source. 
See claim. 
As per 
source. 
Buglossoides arvensis (Parts: Seed); Hippophae rhamnoides (Parts: Fruit); Persea americana (Parts: Fruit); Vitis vinifera (Parts: Seed) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
141 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE J:  Allowable levels and claims: Carotenoids 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage ranges. Minimum: 
Minimum Daily Levels 
Required for use of Health Supplement Claim Maximum: 
Maximum Daily Levels Permitted as Health Supplement 
SSF: Single substance formulation 
MSF: Multiple substance formulation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
142 
 
 
 
143 
Unless otherwise stated the dosage form is oral. 
Carotenoids are divided into the following categories: 
Carotenoids with Pro-Vitamin A activity. 
Carotenoids mainly used as Anti-oxidants. 
The maximum daily dose for these Carotenoids in combination with other vitamin A source materials must not exceed the maximum daily dose for 
vitamin A indicated in Annexure E. 
Carotenoids may be derived from the listed source materials but must be substantially pure extracts from the source material and not simply the 
inclusion of the source material as a whole. 
Action: Source of Pro-vitamin A OR antioxidants. 
General Statements:  
Requirement for labelling: 
If you are pregnant or breast feeding your baby please consult your doctor, pharmacist or other relevant health care provider for advice before 
taking this medicine. 
Store in airtight container, protected from light. 
Do not exceed daily dosage level without consulting a relevant health care provider. 
Long term users (3-month continuous use) should be evaluated and practiced under the care of a relevant health care provider. 
Duration of Use: 
If more than one duration of use statement is indicated for a particular product formulation, only the shortest applicable duration of use statement 
is required on the labelling. 
 
 
144 
Carotenoid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Dosage 
RE: Retinol Equivalents 
Minimum 
Maximum 
A. Carotenoids with Pro-Vitamin A activity 
β-Carotene 
(all-E)-1,1'-(3,7,12,16 
Tetramethyl- 
1,3,5,7,9,11,13,15,
17- 
octadecanonaene-
1,18- diyl)bis[2,6,6- 
trimethylcyclohexen. 
All-trans beta 
carotene Beta 
carotene Sources: 
All-trans-beta-
carotene Beta-
carotene 
Provitamin A; 
- 
for the maintenance of good health. 
- 
to help maintain eyesight, 
skin, membranes and immune 
function. 
- 
to help in the development 
and maintenance of night vision. 
- 
to help in the development 
and maintenance of bones and 
teeth. 
- 
Maintain / Support healthy 
vitamin A levels. 
Consult a relevant health care provider 
prior to use if you are 
a tobacco smoker, 
have cardiovascular disease, 
or use statins to lower 
cholesterol. 
 
 
Calculated to yield 
Retinal Activity 
Equivalents not 
exceeding dosages as 
stipulated in 
Annexure E, Vitamin A. 
α-Carotene 
(all-E)-1,3,3-Trimethyl-2- 
(3,7,12,1-tetramethyl-18-
(2,6,6- trimethyl-2-
cyclohexen-1-yl)-. 
1,3,5,7,9,11,13,15,17- 
octadecanonaenyl)cyclohexene 
As per Annexure E, Vitamin A. 
Source of 
antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s). 
 
Calculated to yield Retinal 
Activity Equivalents (RAE) 
not exceeding dosages as 
stipulated in 
Annexure E, Vitamin A. 
Sources: Citrus sinensis (Fruit); Dunaliella salina (Whole); Elaeis guineensis (Branch); Elaeis guineensis (Fruit); Persea americana (Fruit); Rubus idaeus (Fruit); Solanum 
lycopersicum (Fruit); Zea mays (Seed) 
Cryptoxanthin 
(3R)-beta,beta-Caroten-3-
ol beta-Caroten-3-ol 
Cryptoxanthine 
Kryptoxanthin 
As per Annexure E, Vitamin A. 
Source of 
antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s). 
 
Calculated to yield 
Retinal Activity 
Equivalents not 
exceeding dosages as 
stipulated in 
Annexure E, Vitamin A. 
Sources: Capsicum annuum (Fruit); Capsicum annuum (Petal); Carica papaya (Fruit); Citrus aurantium (Fruit peel); Citrus limon (Fruit peel); Citrus paradisi (Fruit); Citrus 
paradisi (Fruit peel); Citrus sinensis (Fruit peel); Dunaliella salina (Whole); Persea americana (Fruit); Prunus persica (Whole plant); Tagetes erecta (Flower); Zea mays  (Seed) 
 
 
145 
Carotenoid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Dosage 
Minimum 
Maximum 
B. Carotenoids mainly used as Anti-oxidants 
Astaxanthin 
3,3'-dihydroxy-4,4'-diketo-beta- 
carotene. 
3,3'-Dihydroxy-
beta,beta- carotene-
4,4'-dione Sources: 
Haematococcus 
pluvialis (Whole); 
Pandalus borealis (Internal 
shell) 
Source of 
antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s). 
Antioxidant that helps fight/protect 
(cell) against/reduce (the oxidative 
effect of/the oxidative damage caused 
by/cell damage caused by) free 
radicals. 
Not suitable for children. 
Use should be avoided when taking 
immunosuppressants, by patients 
with bleeding disorders, and by 
patients on 5-α- reductase inhibitors. 
Astaxanthin > 4 mg per day: 
For use beyond 3 months, 
consult a relevant health care 
provider. 
 
 
 
 
4 mg 
8 mg 
Lycopene 
All-trans-lycopene 
Lycopene 
psi,psi-
Carotene CI 
75125 E160(d) 
Natural yellow 27 
Source of 
antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s). 
Antioxidant that helps fight/protect 
(cell) against/reduce (the oxidative 
effect of/the oxidative damage caused 
by/cell damage caused by) free 
radicals. 
For products providing at least 6,5 mg 
per day: 
Helps to support prostate health. 
Not suitable for children. 
Consult a relevant health care provider 
prior to use if diagnosed or suspected to 
suffer from prostate cancer. 
 
 
 
Annexure 
B 
submissio
n required. 
20 mg 
Sources: Tomato extract; Blakeslea trispora (Whole);Citrullus lanatus var. lanatus (Fruit); Citrus aurantium (Fruit); Citrus limon (Fruit); Citrus paradisi (Fruit); Citrus 
sinensis (Fruit); Elaeis guineensis (Fruit); Rosa canina (Fruit); Solanum lycopersicum (Fruit); Solanum lycopersicum (Fruit flesh) 
 
 
146 
Carotenoid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Dosage 
Minimum 
Maximum 
B. Carotenoids mainly used as Anti-oxidants 
Lutein 
(3R,3'R,6'R)-beta, epsilon- 
Carotene-3,3'-diol 
(3R,3'R,6 R)-beta, 
epsilon- Carotene-3,3'-diol 
CI 
75125 
E161(b) 
Mixed carotenoids 
(comprising xanthophylls 
and zeaxanthin) Vegetable 
lutein 
Vegetable 
luteol 
Xanthophylls 
Antioxidant for the maintenance of 
good health/eye health. 
Antioxidant that helps fight/protect 
(cell) against/reduce (the oxidative 
effect of/the oxidative damage caused 
by/cell damage caused by) free 
radicals. 
 
 
Annexure 
B 
submissio
n required. 
20 mg 
For products providing at least 6 mg 
per day: 
Helps to maintain/support 
eyesight in certain conditions 
(associated with sunlight 
damage). 
Helps to improve macular pigment 
optical density. 
 
 
 
6 mg 
Sources: Oleoresin from the flower of marigold (Tagetes erecta L.(Asteraceae)); Arnica montana (Flower); Capsicum annuum (Fruit); Cucurbita pepo (Flower); Fucus vesiculosus 
(Whole); 
Oryza sativa (Whole plant); Pisum sativum (Whole plant); Solanum lycopersicum (Fruit); Tagetes erecta (Flower); Tagetes erecta (Herb flowering oleoresin); Tagetes 
erecta (Petal); Taraxacum officinale (Flower); Tussilago farfara (Flower); Viscum album (Leaf) 
Lutein Esters 
Sources: 
Oleoresin from the flower 
of marigold 
(Tagetes erecta L.(Asteraceae)) 
Antioxidant for the maintenance of 
good health/eye health. 
Antioxidant that helps fight/protect 
(cell) against/reduce (the oxidative 
effect of/the oxidative damage caused 
by/cell damage 
caused by) free radicals. 
 
Annexure 
B 
submissio
n required. 
 
 
147 
For products providing at least 12 mg 
per day: 
Helps to maintain/support eyesight in 
certain conditions (associated with 
sunlight damage). 
Helps to improve macular pigment 
optical density. 
 
 
 
12 mg 
40 mg 
 
 
 
148 
Carotenoid 
Health Supplement Claim 
SPECIFIED WARNING(S) 
Dosage 
Minimum 
Maximum 
B. Carotenoids mainly used as Anti-oxidants 
Zeaxanthin 
(3R,3'R)-beta,beta-
Carotene- 3,3'-diol 
All-trans-beta-Carotene-
3,3'-diol Anchovyxanthin 
beta-Carotene-
3,3'-diol meso-
zeaxanthin 
Zeaxanthol 
Antioxidant for the 
maintenance of good health / 
eye health. 
For products providing at least 0,7 mg 
per day: 
Helps to maintain eyesight in 
conditions (associated with sunlight 
damage). 
Helps to improve macular pigment 
optical density. 
 
 
 
Annexure 
B 
submissio
n required. 
2,5 mg 
(Total from 
all sources) 
Sources: Oleoresin from the flower of marigold (Tagetes erectaL.(Asteraceae)); Arnica montana (Flower); Asparagus officinalis (Whole plant); 
Berberis vulgaris (Whole plant); Camellia sinensis (Leaf); Capsicum annuum (Fruit); Capsicum frutescens (Fruit); Carica papaya (Fruit); 
Citrus aurantiifolia (Fruit); Citrus aurantium (Fruit); Citrus bergamia (Fruit); Citrus limon (Leaf); 
Citrus medica var. sarcodactylis (Fruit); Citrus paradisi (Fruit); Citrus reticulata (Fruit); Citrus sinensis (Fruit); Crocus sativus (Peta); Crocus 
sativus (Stigma and style); Cucurbita 
pepo (Flower); Dunaliella salina (Whole); Eschscholzia californica (Whole plant); Fucus vesiculosus (Whole); Hippophae rhamnoides (Fruit); 
Lycium chinense (Fruit); Medicago sativa (Whole plant); Momordica charantia (Fruit); Nannochloropsis gaditana (Broken cell); Palmaria 
palmata (Whole plant); Prunus persica (Fruit); Rosa canina (Fruit); Solanum lycopersicum (Fruit); Tagetes erecta (Flower); Tagetes erecta 
(Herb flowering oleoresin); Zea mays (Seed); Zea mays (Whole plant) 
Zeaxanthin Esters 
Sources: 
Oleoresin from the 
flower of marigold 
(Tagetes erecta 
L.(Asteraceae)) 
Antioxidant for the 
maintenance of good health / 
eye health. 
For products providing at least 1,5 mg 
per day: 
Helps to maintain eyesight in 
conditions (associated with sunlight 
damage). 
Helps to improve macular pigment 
optical density. 
 
 
 
 
Annexure 
B 
submissio
n required. 
5 mg 
(Total from 
all sources) 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE K: Allowable levels and claims: Polyphenols (including Bioflavonoids) 
 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage ranges.  
Minimum: Minimum Daily Levels Required for use of Health Supplement Claim  
Maximum: Maximum Daily Levels Permitted as a Health Supplement 
General Statements: 
Action: Source of [type of polyphenol] e.g. source of isoflavones 
Warning: 
If symptoms worsen, consult a relevant health care provider. Not suitable for children. 
Safety in pregnancy and when breastfeeding has not been established. 
Duration of Use: 
If more than one duration of use statement is indicated for a particular product formulation, only the shortest applicable 
duration of use statement is required on the labelling. 
Dosage: 
For products providing citrus bioflavonoids, quercetin, hesperidin or rutin, the total daily dose of all bioflavonoids must 
not exceed 1 000 mg per day. 
 
 
150 
Appendix 1 - Definitions and Conversion Factors 
 
Definitions 
Dried Fruit Equivalent 
Also known as the Quantity Crude Equivalent (QCE), is the amount of raw, dried fruit used to make a particular extract, 
e.g. if 1 g of a 20:1 extract is used, 1 g of the extract provides 20 g of dried fruit equivalent. 
Aglycone Isoflavone Equivalents (AIE) 
The maximum amount of bioavailable isoflavone upon ingestion. The glycoside forms of the isoflavones must first be 
cleaved to the aglycone form before they can be absorbed. As such, simple addition of aglycone and glycoside forms of 
isoflavone quantities, without taking into consideration the biochemical transformation of the isoflavones, will 
overestimate bioavailable quantities by almost a factor of two. 
 
Conversion factors 
The quantity of isoflavones must always be determined in terms of AIE quantities (i.e. in terms of genistein, daidzein, 
biochanin A and formononetin) for each of the glycoside, malonyl glycoside and/or aglycone forms present in the product. 
Table 1 - Conversion of specific isoflavone quantities into aglycone isoflavone equivalent (AIE) quantities 
 
Isoflavone (1 mg) 
Aglycone Isoflavone Equivalents (AIE) (mg) 
Biochanin A 
1,0 
Biochanin A -7-O-glucoside 
0,64 
Formononetin 
1,0 
Formononetin-7-O-glucoside 
0,62 
Genistein 
1,0 
Genistin 
0,625 
 
 
151 
Malonyl genistin 
0,521 
Daidzein 
1,0 
Daidzin 
0,611 
Malonyl daidzin 
0,506 
Glycitein 
1,0 
 
 
152 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
1. 
FLAVONOIDS: 1.1 Anthocyanins 
Anthocyanins 
Anthocyanosides 
Grapeskin extract (comprising 
Cyanidin, Peonidin, Malvidin, 
Delphinidin, Petunidin, 
Pelargonidin) Anthocyanosides 
from cherries, 
berries, red cabbage, red wine etc. 
Annexure B submission 
required. 
Maximum: 50 mg 
Source: Aristotelia chilensis (Parts: Fruit), Brassica oleracea var. capitata (Parts: Leaf), Daucus carota subsp. sativus var. atrorubens (Parts: Root), Fruit Anthocyanins (Parts: 
Fruit), Ipomoea batatas cv. ayamurasaki (Parts: Root), Prunus cerasus (Parts: Fruit skin), Raphanus sativus (Parts: Root), Raphanus sativus var. sativus (Parts: Root), Ribes 
nigrum (Parts: Fruit), Sambucus nigra subsp. nigra (Parts: Fruit), Vaccinium angustifolium (Parts: Fruit), Vaccinium corymbosum (Parts: Fruit), Vaccinium myrtillus (Parts: Fruit), 
Vaccinium myrtillus (Parts: Leaf), Vaccinium uliginosum (Parts: Fruit), Vegetable Anthocyanins (Parts: Leaf), Vegetable Anthocyanins (Parts: Root) 
 
 
153 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
1. 
FLAVONOIDS: 1.2 Isoflavones 
Red Clover 
Isoflavone Extract 
Trifolium pratense L. Leaf 
Trifolium pratense L. Herb 
Top Trifolium pratense L. 
Flower 
Source of antioxidants. 
Menopausal and 
postmenopausal 
women 
For use in reducing symptoms 
associated with menopause 
such as hot flashes and/or 
night sweats. 
Postmenopausal women 
When combined with 
sufficient vitamin D, 
calcium, a healthy diet and 
regular exercise, may 
contribute to the reduced 
loss of bone mineral density 
(BMD). 
Pre-menopausal Women 
If you are pregnant or 
breastfeeding, consult a relevant 
health care provider prior to use. 
Postmenopausal women 
Ensure that you are up-to-date 
on appointed clinical tests such 
as mammograms and 
endometrial ultrasounds or 
biopsies before using this 
product. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use if you: 
• are taking thyroid hormone 
replacement therapy; or you 
have a liver disorder or develop 
liver-related symptoms (e.g. 
abdominal pain, jaundice, dark 
urine); 
• have a history of hormonal or 
gynecological disease including 
ovarian cancer, endometriosis 
and/or uterine fibroids; 
• are taking hormone 
replacement therapy; or 
Discontinue use if you experience 
breast pain, discomfort, soreness 
and/or tenderness, abnormal 
uterine bleeding including spotting 
and/or recurrence of menstruation 
and consult a relevant health care 
provider. 
Hot flushes and/or night sweats 
Preparations equivalent 
to 40-100 mg total AIE, 
per day. 
Use for a minimum of 2 weeks to 
see beneficial effects. 
For all products: 
The total isoflavones content must be 
expressed in mg total AIE on the 
product label and in the potency 
section of 
the PLA. 
Optional: Potencies may be indicated 
for specific isoflavones (biochanin A, 
genistein, formononetin, daidzein). 
Their content must also be expressed 
in mg AIE on the product label and in 
the potency section of the PLA. 
Refer to Appendix 1 of this 
Annexure for the definition and 
derivation of AIE. 
 
 
154 
If symptoms worsen, consult a 
relevant health care provider. 
 
 
155 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
1. 
FLAVONOIDS: 1.2 Isoflavones 
Contraindication(s) 
Postmenopausal women 
≥ 30 mg AIE, per day 
If you currently have or previously 
had breast cancer or if you have a 
predisposition to breast cancer, as 
indicated by an abnormal 
mammogram and/or biopsy, or if 
you have a family member with 
breast cancer, do not use this 
product. 
Soy Isoflavone Extract 
Glycine max (L.) Merr. 
Glycine max (Parts: Hypocotyl) 
Glycine max (Parts: Leaf 
cotyledon) Glycine max (Parts: 
Seed) 
Glycine max (Parts: Seed coat) 
When combined with 
sufficient vitamin D, calcium, 
a healthy diet and regular 
exercise, may contribute to 
the reduced loss of bone 
mineral density (BMD). 
For use in reducing symptoms 
associated with menopause 
such as hot flashes and/or 
night sweats. 
Ensure you are up-to-date on 
mammograms and 
gynecological evaluations prior 
to use. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider if symptoms worsen and 
prior to use if you: 
• are taking blood thinners; 
• have a history of hormonal or 
gynecological disease, 
including ovarian cancer, 
endometriosis, and/or uterine 
fibroids; 
• have a liver disorder or develop 
liver- related symptoms (e.g. 
abdominal pain, jaundice, dark 
urine); or 
• are 
taking 
hormone 
replacement therapy (HRT), 
including thyroid hormone 
replacement therapy. 
Reduced loss of BMD: 
Post-menopausal women 
Total isoflavones: Preparations 
equivalent to 75-125 mg AIE, per 
day. 
Use for a minimum of 6 
months to see beneficial 
effects. 
Reduced Menopausal symptoms: 
Menopausal and post-
menopausal women 
Total isoflavones: Preparations 
equivalent to 30-100 mg AIE 
with a minimum of 15 mg AIE 
from genistein/genistin 
compounds, per day. 
Use for a minimum of 2 weeks to 
see beneficial effects. 
For all products: 
Total isoflavones content must 
 
 
156 
Discontinue use and consult a 
relevant health care provider if you 
experience breast pain, discomfort 
and/or 
be expressed in aglycone 
isoflavone 
equivalents (AIE) on the product label 
and 
 
 
157 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
1. 
FLAVONOIDS: 1.2 Isoflavones 
tenderness, or 
a 
recurrence
 
of menstruation 
and/or uterine spotting. 
Contraindication(s): 
Do not use if you currently have or 
previously had breast cancer 
and/or breast tumors or if you 
have a predisposition to breast 
cancer, as indicated by an 
abnormal mammogram and/or 
biopsy, or a family member with 
breast cancer. 
in the potency section of the 
registration application. 
Additionally, genistein/genistin 
compounds (including genistein, 
genistin, acetyl genistin, and malonyl 
genistin) content must also be 
expressed in AIE on the product label 
and in the potency section of the 
registration application for products 
with reduction of menopausal 
symptom claims. 
Refer to Appendix 1 of this Annexure 
for the definition and derivation of 
AIE. 
Biochanin A 
4,5-dihydroxy-3-(4-
methoxyphenyl)- chromen-7-one 
4H-1-Benzopyran-4-one, 5,7- 
dihydroxy-3-(4-
methoxyphenyl)- 
5,7-Dihydroxy-3-p-methoxyphenyl-
4H- chromen-4-one 
5,7-Dihydroxy-4'-
methoxyisoflavone Isoflavone, 5,7-
dihydroxy-4'-methoxy- Pratensol 
Red Clover Isoflavone Extract 
Permitted only as a 
component of Red Clover 
Isoflavone extract, unless 
subject to a successful 
Annexure B application. 
Source: Trifolium pratense (Parts: Flower), Trifolium pratense (Parts: Herb top), Trifolium pratense (Parts: Leaf), Trifolium pratense (Parts: Whole plant) 
Daidzein 
4',7-Dihydroxyisoflavone 
4H-1-Benzopyran-4-one, 7-
hydroxy-3- (4-hydroxyphenyl)- 
7,4'-Dihydroxyisoflavone 
Daidzeol 
soy isoflavone 
Red Clover isoflavone extract 
Permitted only as a component 
of: 
1. Red Clover Isoflavone 
extract; and 
2. Soy isoflavone extract. 
Do not use if: 
• pregnant or intending to become 
pregnant; 
• breastfeeding; or 
• you 
are 
taking 
estrogen 
supplements 
or 
anticoagulant 
therapy such as warfarin. 
Source: Glycine max (Parts: Hypocotyl), Glycine max (Parts: Leaf cotyledon), Glycine max (Parts: Seed), Glycine max (Parts: Seed coat), Trifolium pratense (Parts: 
Flower), Trifolium pratense (Parts: Herb top), Trifolium pratense (Parts: Leaf), Trifolium pratense (Parts: Whole plant) 
 
 
158 
Daidzin 
Permitted only as a component 
of: 
Do not use if: 
 
 
159 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
1. 
FLAVONOIDS: 1.2 Isoflavones 
Daidzein 7-glucoside 
Daidzein 7-O-
glucoside Daidzoside 
H-1-Benzopyran-4-one, 7-(beta-
D- glucopyranosyloxy)-3-(4- 
hydroxyphenyl)- 
soy isoflavone 
1. Red Clover Isoflavone 
extract; or 
2 Soy isoflavone extract. 
• pregnant or intending to become 
pregnant; 
• breastfeeding; or 
• you 
are 
taking 
estrogen 
supplements 
or 
anticoagulant 
therapy, such as warfarin. 
Source: Glycine max (Parts: Hypocotyl, Leaf cotyledon, Seed, Seed coat), Pueraria montana - var. lobata (Parts: Root) - var. thomsonii (Parts: Root), Trifolium pratense (Parts: 
Whole plant) 
Formononetin 
7-Hydroxy-4'-methoxyisoflavone 
4H-1-Benzopyran-4-one, 7-
hydroxy-3- (4-methoxyphenyl)- 
Formononetol 
Red Clover Isoflavone Extract 
Permitted only as a component 
of: Red Clover Isoflavone 
extract. 
Source: Trifolium pratense (Parts: Flower), Trifolium pratense (Parts: Herb top), Trifolium pratense (Parts: Leaf), Trifolium pratense (Parts: Whole plant) 
Genistein 
4',5,7-Trihydroxyisoflavone 
5,7-Dihydroxy-3-(4-
hydroxyphenyl)- 4H-1-
benzopyran-4-one 
4',5,7-
Trihydroxyisoflavone 4H-
1-Benzopyran-4-one, 5,7- 
dihydroxy-3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)- 
Genisteol 
Genisteri
n 
Permitted only as a component 
of: 
1. Red Clover Isoflavone 
extract; or 
2. Soy isoflavone extract. 
Do not use if: 
• pregnant or intending to become 
pregnant; 
• breastfeeding; or 
• you 
are 
taking 
estrogen 
supplements 
or 
anticoagulant 
therapy, such as warfarin. 
Source: Glycine max (Parts: Hypocotyl, Leaf cotyledon, Seed, Seed coat, Seed endosperm), Trifolium pratense (Parts: Flower, Herb top, Leaf, Whole plant) 
Genistin 
4H-1-Benzopyran-4-one, 7-(beta-
D- glucopyranosyloxy)-3-(4- 
hydroxyphenyl)- 
7-beta-D-glucopyranoside 
Genistein 7-glucoside 
soy isoflavone 
7-(beta-D-glucopyranosyloxy)-3-(4- 
hydroxyphenyl)-4H-1-Benzopyran-4-
Permitted only as a component 
of: 
1. Soy isoflavone extract. 
Do not use if: 
• pregnant or intending to become 
pregnant; 
• breastfeeding; or 
• you 
are 
taking 
estrogen 
supplements 
or 
anticoagulant 
therapy, such as warfarin. 
 
 
160 
one 
Source: Glycine max (Parts: Hypocotyl), Glycine max (Parts: Leaf cotyledon), Glycine max (Parts: Seed), Glycine max (Parts: Seed coat) 
 
 
161 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
1. 
FLAVONOIDS: 1.3 Flavonols 
Quercetin 
An antioxidant. 
Used as a capillary/blood 
vessel protectant. 
Contributes to maintaining 
normal immune response to 
seasonal allergens. 
Not for use in children. 
Quercetin 
Quercetin 
dihydrate 
2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-
3,5,7- trihydroxychromen-4-
one 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
you 
are 
pregnant 
or 
breastfeeding. 
Adults: 
Maximum: 1 200 mg 
3,3',4',5,7-Pentahydroxyflavone 
Quercitin 
For products providing 40 – 1 
200 mg per day: 
Capillary/blood vessel 
protectant 
Sophoretin 
For use beyond 12 weeks, 
consult a relevant health care 
provider. 
Dose(s): 600 – 1 200 mg per day 
For products providing doses 
that are 40 - 1 200 mg per day, 
the following statement is 
required: 
Normal immune response to 
seasonal allergens: 
Dose(s): 200 – 1 200 mg per day 
Take in 2 or 3 divided doses 
with food/meals. 
Sources: Allium cepa (Parts: Bulb); Allium sativum (Parts: Bulb); Allium schoenoprasum (Parts: Leaf); Apis mellifera (Parts: Gum from beehive); Avena sativa (Parts: Herb); 
Azadirachta indica (Parts: Flower); Azadirachta indica (Parts: Leaf); Brassica oleracea var. botrytis (Parts: Flower); Brassica oleracea var. botrytis (Parts: Leaf); Brassica 
oleracea var. capitata (Parts: Leaf); Brassica oleracea var. gemmifera (Parts: Sprout); Brassica oleracea var. gongylodes (Parts: Shoot); Brassica oleracea var. sabellica (Parts: 
Leaf); Camellia sinensis (Parts: Leaf); Camellia sinensis (Parts: Whole plant); Capsicum frutescens (Parts: Fruit); Dimorphandra mollis (Parts: Leaf); Dimorphandra mollis (Parts: 
Seed); Empetrum nigrum (Parts: Fruit); Empetrum nigrum var. hermaphroditum (Parts: Fruit); Helianthus annuus (Parts: Flower); Helianthus annuus (Parts: Leaf); Hippophae 
rhamnoides (Parts: Fruit); Malus domestica (Parts: Fruit pericarp); Oenothera biennis (Parts: Herb); Oenothera biennis (Parts: Leaf); Olea europaea (Parts: Fruit); Olea europaea 
(Parts: Fruit flesh); Podophyllum hexandrum (Parts: Rhizome); Podophyllum peltatum (Parts: Rhizome Resin); Prunus virginiana (Parts: Fruit); Pyrus communis (Parts: Fruit 
pericarp); Ribes nigrum (Parts: Fruit); Sorbus aucuparia (Parts: Fruit); Spinacia oleracea (Parts: Leaf); Styphnolobium japonicum (Parts: Flower); Styphnolobium japonicum 
(Parts: Flower bud); Styphnolobium japonicum (Parts: Whole plant); Vaccinium angustifolium (Parts: Fruit); Vaccinium macrocarpon (Parts: Fruit); Vaccinium myrtillus (Parts: 
Fruit); Vaccinium vitis-idaea (Parts: Fruit) 
 
 
162 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
1. 
FLAVONOIDS: 1.3 Flavonols 
Rutoside (Rutin) 
Rutin 
Rutinosid
e 
3-[[6-O-(6-Deoxy-alpha-L- 
mannopyranosyl)-beta-D- 
glucopyranosyl]oxy]-2-(3,4- 
dihydroxyphenyl)-5,7-dihydroxy-
4H-1- benzopyran-4-one 
quercetin-3-O-rutinoside 
Sophorin 
3,3',4',5,7-
Pentahydroxyflavone-3- 
rutinoside 
3-(O-6-deoxy-alpha-l-
mannopyranosyl- (1-6)-beta-d-
glucopyranosyloxy)-2- 
(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-5,7-
dihydroxy- 4H-chromen-4-one 
An antioxidant. 
Used as a capillary/blood 
vessel protectant. 
If pregnant or breastfeeding, 
consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use. 
For products providing doses 
greater than or equal to 250 mg 
per day: 
For 
use 
beyond 
6 
weeks, 
consult a relevant health care 
provider. 
Maximum: 1 000 mg 
Capillary/blood vessel 
protectant 
Dose(s): 400 – 1 000 mg per day 
NOTE: A single dose should not 
exceed 500 mg. 
Source: Apium graveolens var. dulce (Parts: Whole plant), Artemisia dracunculus (Parts: Shoot), Brassica oleracea var. gemmifera (Parts: Shoot), Camellia sinensis (Parts: 
Leaf), Citrus limon (Parts: Fruit), Citrus limon (Parts: Leaf), Citrus sinensis (Parts: Fruit pericarp), Citrus sinensis (Parts: Leaf), Dimorphandra gardneriana (Parts: Seed), 
Dimorphandra gardneriana (Parts: Seed pod), Dimorphandra mollis (Parts: Fruit), Dimorphandra mollis (Parts: Husk), Dimorphandra mollis (Parts: Seed pod), Eschscholzia 
californica (Parts: Flower), Fagopyrum esculentum (Parts: Flower), Fagopyrum esculentum (Parts: Herb top), Fagopyrum esculentum (Parts: Leaf), Fagopyrum esculentum (Parts: 
Stem), Fagopyrum esculentum (Parts: Whole plant), Ficus carica (Parts: Leaf), Forsythia suspensa (Parts: Flower), Forsythia suspensa (Parts: Fruit), Humulus lupulus (Parts: 
Leaf), Humulus lupulus (Parts: Strobile), Hydrangea paniculata (Parts: Flower), Lespedeza capitata (Parts: Leaf), Magnolia kobus (Parts: Flower), Morus alba (Parts: Leaf), 
Nicotiana glauca (Parts: Leaf), Nicotiana tabacum (Parts: Leaf), Persicaria hydropiper (Parts: Leaf), Petroselinum crispum (Parts: Leaf), Prunus armeniaca (Parts: Leaf), 
Reynoutria japonica (Parts: Whole plant), Reynoutria multiflora (Parts: Whole plant), Rheum officinale (Parts: Leaf), Rheum officinale (Parts: Rootlet), Rheum officinale (Parts: 
Stem), Rheum undulatum (Parts: Leaf), Rheum undulatum (Parts: Stem), Ricinus communis (Parts: Leaf), Rumex acetosa (Parts: Leaf), Rumex acetosella (Parts: Shoot), Ruscus 
aculeatus (Parts: Whole plant), Ruta graveolens (Parts: Leaf), Ruta graveolens (Parts: Whole plant), Sambucus nigra subsp. canadensis (Parts: Flower), Sambucus nigra subsp. 
canadensis (Parts: Leaf), Sambucus nigra subsp. nigra (Parts: Flower), Sambucus nigra subsp. nigra (Parts: Leaf), Solanum lycopersicum (Parts: Fruit), Solanum lycopersicum 
(Parts: Leaf), Solidago virgaurea (Parts: Herb), Spinacia oleracea (Parts: Leaf), Styphnolobium japonicum (Parts: Flower), Styphnolobium japonicum (Parts: Flower bud), 
Styphnolobium japonicum (Parts: Fruit), Styphnolobium japonicum (Parts: Leaf), Tussilago farfara (Parts: Flower), Uncaria elliptica (Parts: Leaf), Viola odorata (Parts: Flower), 
Viola tricolor (Parts: Flower), Ziziphus jujuba (Parts: Leaf) 
 
 
163 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
1. 
FLAVONOIDS: 1.4 Flavanols (flavan-3-ols) 
Grape Seed extract 
spp. Vitis vinifera (L.) 
Vitis vinifera Seed 
Extract 
(source of 
oligomeric 
proanthocyanidins) 
Source of antioxidants for 
the maintenance of good 
health. 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of venous health. 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
you 
are 
pregnant 
or 
breastfeeding. 
Venous health: 
Use for a minimum of 1 month to 
see beneficial effects. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider for use beyond 3 
months or if symptoms worsen. 
Antioxidant: 
Maximum: 475 mg containing 
80 to 85 % oligomeric 
proanthocyanidins 
Venous health: 
150 mg to 475 mg grape seed 
extract containing 80 to 85 % 
oligomeric proanthocyanidins 
Green Tea Catechins 
– complex 
Sources: 
Camellia sinensis L. Kuntze 
Camellia sinensis (Parts: Leaf) 
Camellia sinensis (Parts: Leaf 
bud) 
Camellia sinensis (Parts: Leaf young) 
Source of antioxidants for 
the maintenance of good 
health. 
To be used with a program of 
reduced intake of dietary calories 
and increased physical activity (if 
possible); 
to 
help 
in 
weight 
management. 
If containing caffeine refer to: 
Guideline 
7.06, 
Annex 
1: 
CAFFEINE. 
Catechins (of Camellia 
sinensis L. Kuntze) if 
containing caffeine: 
CONTAINS CAFFEINE (refer to 
Guideline 7.06, Annex 1: 
CAFFEINE). 
Rare, unpredictable cases of 
liver injury associated with 
green tea extract-containing 
products have been reported. 
Stop use and consult a relevant 
health care provider if you 
develop symptoms of liver 
trouble such as yellowing of the 
skin/eyes (jaundice), stomach 
pain, dark urine, sweating, 
nausea, unusual tiredness 
and/or loss of appetite. 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider: 
• 
for use beyond 12 weeks; 
• 
prior to use if you are 
pregnant or breastfeeding; or 
Antioxidant: 
Extracts providing up to 690 mg 
total catechins, and no more 
than 150 mg caffeine, per day. 
Weight management: 
Extracts providing 136 to 300 
mg (-)- epigallocatechin-3-gallate 
(EGCG) and 75 to 150 mg 
caffeine, per day with an EGCG: 
caffeine ratio of 1.8:1 to 4:1. 
 
 
164 
• 
if you have a liver disorder 
or an iron deficiency. 
 
 
165 
Ingredien
t 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
1. 
FLAVONOIDS: 1.4 Flavanols (flavan-3-ols) 
Epigallocatechin 
gallate (EGCG) 
Epigallocatechin-3-gallate 
3,4,5-Trihydroxybenzoic acid, 
(2R,3R)- 3,4-dihydro-5,7-dihydroxy-
2-(3,4,5- trihydroxyphenyl)-2H-1-
benzopyran-3- 
yl ester 
Orally: Permitted only as a 
component of Green Tea 
extract. 
Sources: Camellia sinensis (Parts: Leaf), Camellia sinensis (Parts: Leaf bud), Camellia sinensis (Parts: Leaf young), Green tea Polyphenols Phospholipid Group (Parts: Leaf) 
Proanthocyanidins 
(4,8'-Bi-2H-1-benzopyran)- 
3,3',5,5',7,7'-hexol, 2'-(3,5-
dihydroxy-4- methoxyphenyl)-
3,3',4,4'-tetrahydro-2- (4-
hydroxyphenyl)-, 
(2R,2'R,3R,3'R,4R)- 
Grape seed extract 
An antioxidant. 
Maximum: 50 mg 
For Vaccinium macrocarpon, 
proanthocyanidins calculated 
as: procyanidine B1 
Sources: Blend of Fruit (Parts: Fruit); Ceratonia siliqua (Parts: Fruit); Hamamelis virginiana (Parts: Leaf); Pinus massoniana (Parts: Stem bark); Pinus pinaster (Parts: Stem 
bark); Pinus radiata (Parts: Stem bark); Pinus radiata (Parts: Twig bark); Vaccinium macrocarpon (Parts: Fruit); Vitis vinifera 'Chardonnay' (Parts: Seed); Vitis vinifera (Parts: 
Fruit skin); Vitis vinifera (Parts: Seed) 
Oligomeric 
Proanthocyanidi
ns 
Source of antioxidants for 
the maintenance of good 
health. 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
you 
are 
pregnant 
or 
breastfeeding. 
Maximum: 400 mg 
oligomeric 
proanthocyanidins 
Sources: Blend of Fruit (Parts: Fruit); Crataegus laevigata (Parts: Fruit); Crataegus monogyna (Parts: Fruit); Grape Seed Oligomeric proanthocyanidins Phospholipid Group (Parts: 
Seed); Hamamelis virginiana (Parts: Leaf); Hamamelis virginiana (Parts: Twig bark); Pinus pinaster (Parts: Whole plant); Vitis vinifera (Parts: Seed) 
Tannins 
For any containing-product: 
This product may adversely affect 
the absorption of Iron and Zinc. 
 
 
166 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
1. 
FLAVONOIDS: 1.5 Flavones 
Diosmin 
Diosmetin-7-O-
rutinoside Diosmine 
Barosmin 
5-Hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxy-4- 
methoxyphenyl)-7-(O6-alpha-L- 
rhamnopyranosyl-beta-D- 
glucopyranosyloxy)chromen-4-
one 
3',5-Dihydroxy-4'-methoxy-4-oxo-
4H- chromen-7-ylrutosid 
7-[(6-O-(6-Deoxy-alpha-L- 
mannopyranosyl)-beta-D- 
glucopyranosyl)oxy]-5-hydroxy-2-
(3- hydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl)-
4H-1- 
benzopyran-4-one 
Pending scheduling amendment. 
Permitted only as a 
component of Citrus 
polyphenol extract. 
Source: Citrus sinensis (L.); – fruit peel, Buchu Resin 
Nobiletin 
2-(3,4-Dimethoxyphenyl)-5,6,7,8- 
tetramethoxy-4H-1-benzopyran-4-
one 
Permitted only as a 
component of Citrus 
polyphenol extract. 
Polymethoxylated 
Flavones 
methoxyflavones 
methoxylated 
flavones Sub-
ingredients: 
5,6,7,8,4'-pentamethoxyflavone 
(Tangeretin) 
5,6,7,3',4'-pentamethoxyflavone 
(Sinensetin) 
5,6,7,8,3',4'- 
hexamethoxyflavone(nobiletin) 
3,5,6,7,8,3',4'-
heptamethoxyflavone 
(heptamethoxyflavone) 
Antioxidant. 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider before use if 
you are: 
• taking anticoagulants 
or antiplatelet 
medicines; or 
• at risk of bleeding problems. 
Maximum: 270 mg 
Sources: Citrus aurantium (Parts: Fruit peel); Citrus reticulata (Parts: Fruit peel); Citrus sinensis (Parts: Fruit peel) 
 
 
167 
Tangeretin 
5,6,7,8,4'-Pentamethoxyflavone 
5,6,7,8-Tetramethoxy-2-(4- 
methoxyphenyl)-4-
benzopyrone 
Permitted only as a component 
of a Citrus polyphenol extract. 
Sources: Citrus aurantium (Parts: Fruit); Citrus limon (Parts: Fruit); Citrus medica (Parts: Fruit); Citrus reticulata (Parts: Fruit); Citrus sinensis (Parts: Fruit) 
 
 
168 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
1. 
FLAVONOIDS: 1.6 Flavanones 
Eriocitrin 
(S)-7-((6-O-(6-Deoxy-alpha-
L- mannopyranosyl)-beta-D- 
glucopyranosyl) oxy)-2-(3,4- 
dihydroxyphenyl)-2,3-
dihydro-5- hydroxy-4H-
benzopyran-4-one 
Citrus Bioflavonoid 
Permitted only as a 
component of Citrus 
polyphenol extract. 
Hesperidin 
(2S)-7-[[6-O-(6-Deoxy-alpha-L- 
mannopyranosyl)-beta-D- 
glucopyranosyl]oxy]-2,3-dihydro-
5- hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxy-4- 
methoxyphenyl)-4H-1-
benzopyran-4- one 
Hesperetin 7-rutinoside 
Hesperitin-7-
rhamnoglucoside 
Source of 
antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s). 
Source of antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s); that help(s); 
fight/protect (cell); against/reduce 
(the oxidative effect of/the 
oxidative damage caused by/cell 
damage caused by); free radicals. 
For doses > 50 mg/day: 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
you are: 
• pregnant or breastfeeding; and 
• taking any prescription 
medication. 
Maximum: 1 000 mg 
Sources: Citrus aurantium (Parts: Fruit), Citrus limon (Parts: Fruit), Citrus medica (Parts: Fruit), Citrus paradisi (Parts: Fruit), Citrus reticulata (Parts: Fruit), Citrus sinensis (Parts: 
Fruit) 
Naringenin 
(S)-2,3-Dihydro-5,7-dihydroxy-2-
(4- hydroxyphenyl)-4- 
benzopyrone 
Permitted only as a 
component of Citrus 
polyphenol extract. 
Sources: Citrus maxima (Parts: Fruit), Citrus sinensis (Parts: Fruit pericarp) 
Naringin 
4',5,7-Trihydroxyflavanone 7- 
rhamnoglucoside 
7-[[2-O-(6-Deoxy-alpha-l- 
mannopyranosyl)-beta-d- 
glucopyranosyl]oxy]-2,3-
dihydro-5- hydroxy-2-(4-
hydroxyphenyl)-4H-1- 
benzopyran-4-one 
Permitted only as a 
component of Citrus 
polyphenol extract. 
Sources: Citrus bergamia (Parts: Fruit), Citrus maxima (Parts: Fruit), Citrus maxima (Parts: Fruit peel), Citrus paradisi (Parts: Fruit), Citrus paradisi (Parts: Seed) 
 
 
169 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
2. 
STILBENOIDS 
Resveratrol 
(E)-5-(p-Hydroxystyryl) 
resorcinol 1,3-Benzenediol, 5-
(2-(4- hydroxyphenyl) 
ethenyl)-, (E)- 3,4',5-
Stilbenetriol 
3,4',5-Trihydroxystilbene 
5-[(1E)-2-(4-Hydroxyphenyl) 
ethenyl]- 1,3-benzenediol 
trans-3,4',5-
Trihydroxystilbene trans-
Resveratrol 
Sources: 
Reynoutria japonica (Parts: 
Root) Reynoutria multiflora 
(Parts: Root) Vitis vinifera 
'Chardonnay' (Parts: Fruit) 
Vitis vinifera (Parts: 
Fruit) Vitis vinifera 
(Parts: Leaf) 
Yucca schidigera (Parts: Trunk bark) 
An antioxidant. 
Not suitable for children. 
Resveratrol may interact 
with anticoagulants 
or 
antiplatelet medicines. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use, especially if 
you: 
• are pregnant or breastfeeding; 
• are taking prescription 
medication, as resveratrol may 
alter the effectiveness of these 
medications; and 
• have hormone sensitive 
conditions. 
Products providing more 
than 250 mg resveratrol per 
day: 
For prolonged use, consult a 
relevant health care provider. 
Known adverse reaction(s): 
Products providing ≥ 500 
mg of resveratrol per day: 
May cause nausea, abdominal 
pain, and/or diarrhoea 
Adults: 
Maximum: 1 000 mg per day 
 
 
170 
 
Ingredien
t 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
3. 
PHENOLIC ACIDS 
None currently recognized as health supplements. 
 
 
171 
 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
4. 
LIGNANS 
Flaxseed 
2,3-Bis(3-methoxy-4- 
hydroxybenzyl)butane-1,4-diol 
1,4- diglucoside 
beta-D-Glucopyranose, diglycoside 
with 2,3-bis((4-hydroxy-3- 
methoxyphenyl)methyl-1,4-
butanediol, (R-(R*,R*))- 
Secoisolariciresinol diglucoside 
Source: 
Linum usitatissimum seed (ripe 
seed only) 
Reference to this entry is specific 
to the action of the lignans 
contained in Flaxseed: 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal blood 
glucose levels. 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal blood 
pressure. 
See also: 
Annexure G - Flaxseed protein 
Annexure I - Flaxseed 
oil Annexure O - 
Flaxseed 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider if intended for use for 
longer than 3 months. 
Maximum dose yielding 
360 mg secoisolariciresinol 
diglucoside. 
 
 
172 
 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
5. 
CURCUMINOIDS 
Curcuminoids mixed 
curcumin 
demethoxycurcumin 
bisdemethoxycurcum
in 
Sources: 
Curcuma longa (Parts: Rhizome) 
Curcuma longa (Parts: Root) 
Curcuma longa (Parts: Whole 
plant) 
Turmeric Curcuminoids 
Phospholipid Group (Parts: 
Rhizome) 
See 6. Curcumin. 
 
 
173 
 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
6. 
CURCUMIN 
Curcumin 
(1E,6E)-1,7-Bis(4-hydroxy-3- 
methoxyphenyl)-1,6-heptadiene-
3,5- dione 
Diferoyl 
Methane 
Turmeric yellow 
Sources: 
Curcuma longa (Parts: 
Rhizome) Curcuma longa 
(Parts: Root) Curcuma picta 
(Parts: Rhizome) 
Turmeric Curcuminoids 
Phospholipid Group (Parts: 
Rhizome) 
An antioxidant. 
Helps to relieve inflammation. 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
you: 
• are pregnant; 
• are taking antiplatelet 
medication or blood thinners; 
• have gallstones or a bile 
duct obstruction; or 
• have stomach ulcers or 
excess stomach acid. 
Relief of inflammation: 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider if symptoms 
persist or worsen. 
Adults: 
Maximum: 400 mg, 3 times daily 
 
 
174 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
7. 
MIXED EXTRACT POLYPHENOLS 
Bilberry Extract 
Vaccinium myrtillus L. 
Common 
Name(s): 
Bilberry 
European 
blueberry 
Huckleberry 
Whortleberry 
Provides antioxidants for 
the maintenance of good 
health. 
Use to maintain and promote 
eye health and healthy vision. 
Use to maintain and 
promote vascular health. 
Maintain and promote: 
eye health and healthy 
vision / 
vascular health: 
160 to 480 mg of dried extract 
standardized to 36 % 
anthocyanins, per day; Not to 
exceed 160 mg per single 
dose 
Antioxidant: 
Minimum: 1,8 g 
QCE Maximum: 75 
g QCE 
Blueberry Extract 
Species: 
Vaccinium corymbosum L. 
• 
American blueberry 
• 
highbush blueberry 
• 
swamp blueberry 
• 
Vaccinium atlanticum 
• 
Vaccinium constablaei; 
Vaccinium angustifolium 
Aiton [accepted name] 
• 
Blueberry 
• 
Late sweet blueberry 
• 
Low sweet blueberry 
• 
Lowbush blueberry 
• 
Sweethurts 
• 
Upland lowbush blueberry 
• 
Vaccinium brittonii 
• 
Vaccinium lamarckii 
• 
Vaccinium nigrum 
• 
Vaccinium pensylvanicum; 
and/or 
Provides antioxidants. 
Not suitable for children. 
Products providing ≥ 5 g dried 
fruit equivalent per day; 
If you are taking blood 
thinners, consult a relevant 
health care provider prior to 
use. 
Adults: 
Dry, Non-Standardized 
extracts & Standardized 
extracts: 
Maximum: 20 g dried fruit 
equivalent per day 
 
 
175 
• 
Vaccinium pallidum Aiton 
Citrus Bioflavonoids 
Citrus bioflavonoids 
Provides antioxidants. 
Not suitable for children. 
Adults: 
 
 
176 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
7. 
MIXED EXTRACT POLYPHENOLS 
Citrus extract 
Lemon 
bioflavonoids 
Orange bioflavonoids 
Sub-ingredients: 
Diosmin, 
Eriocitrin, 
Hesperidin, 
Naringenin, 
Naringin, 
Nobiletin, 
Quercetin, Rutin, Tangeretin 
Products providing ≥ 50 mg 
per day: 
If you are taking prescription 
medication, consult a relevant 
health care provider prior to use, 
as citrus bioflavonoids may alter 
the effectiveness of these 
medications. 
Maximum: 1 000 mg 
citrus bioflavonoids 
per day. 
Sources: Citrus sinensis (L.), Citrus limon (L.), Citrus reticulata Blanco –; Peel, rind and/or fruit, Citrus aurantiifolia, Citrus paradis Macfad. – Peel, rind and/or fruit, Citrus 
aurantiifolia (Parts: Fruit), Citrus aurantiifolia (Parts: Fruit peel), Citrus aurantium (Parts: Fruit), Citrus aurantium (Parts: Fruit peel), Citrus bergamia (Parts: Fruit), Citrus limon 
(Parts: Fruit), Citrus limon (Parts: Fruit peel), Citrus maxima (Parts: Fruit), Citrus paradisi (Parts: Fruit), Citrus paradisi (Parts: Fruit peel), Citrus reticulata (Parts: Fruit), Citrus 
reticulata (Parts: Fruit peel), Citrus sinensis (Parts: Fruit), Citrus sinensis (Parts: Fruit peel) 
Green Tea 
Polyphenols Green 
Tea Catechins 
Thea sinensis 
See 1.4.7 – Green Tea Catechins 
See Green Tea Catechins 
Lemon Bioflavonoids 
Bioflavonoids 
See Citrus Bioflavonoids. 
Pine Bark Extract 
Pinus maritima bark extract 
Source: 
Pinus pinaster (Parts: Whole 
plant) Preparations: Dry, Fresh 
An antioxidant. 
Source of antioxidant(s)/Provides 
antioxidant(s) that help(s) 
fight/protect (cell) against/reduce 
(the oxidative effect of/the 
oxidative damage caused by/cell 
damage caused by) free radicals. 
If you are taking blood thinners, 
diabetic medication or immune 
suppressant medication consult 
a relevant health care provider 
prior to use. 
Discontinue use at least 2 
weeks before elective surgical 
procedures. 
200 to 450 mg of extract 
standardized to 65-75 % 
procyanidins 
 
 
 
177 
 
ANNEXURE L: Allowable levels and claims: Aminosaccharides 
 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage ranges.  
Minimum: Minimum Daily Levels Required for use of Health Supplement Claim  
Maximum: Maximum Daily Levels Permitted as Health Supplement 
 
General Statements: 
Warning: 
If symptoms worsen, consult a relevant health care provider. 
Not suitable for children unless under the care of a relevant health care provider. 
Duration of Use: 
If more than one duration of use statement is indicated for a particular product formulation, only the shortest applicable 
duration of use statement is required on the labelling. 
 
 
178 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
Chitosan 
See Annexure H - Animal Extracts 
Products and Derivatives 
Chondroitin sulphate 
See Annexure H - Animal Extracts 
Products and Derivatives 
Glucosamine Hydrochloride 
2-Amino-2-deoxy-beta-D-glucopyranose 
hydrochloride 
◦ 2-Amino-2-deoxy-D-glucose hydrochloride 
Sources: 
Crab (Exoskeleton) 
Lobster (Exoskeleton) 
Prawn (Exoskeleton) 
Shrimp (Exoskeleton) 
Decapoda 
(Exoskeleton) 
Monascus pilosus (Whole Cell) 
fermented Monascus purpureus (Whole 
Cell) fermented 
Aspergillus flavus var. oryzae 
(Whole) fermented 
Aspergillus 
melleus 
(Whole) 
fermented Aspergillus niger var. 
awamori (Whole) fermented 
Aspergillus 
niger 
(Whole) 
fermented 
Rhizopus 
oryzae 
(Whole) fermented 
A factor in maintaining healthy 
cartilage. Helps to maintain healthy 
cartilage. 
A factor in maintaining joint health. 
Consult a relevant health care provider 
prior to use if you are pregnant or 
breastfeeding. 
Not suitable for children. 
If obtained from marine 
sources: Derived from 
seafood. 
Duration of use 
Use for a minimum of 4 weeks to 
see beneficial effects. 
1 500 to 2 000 mg 
The daily dose for glucosamine hydrochloride in combination with glucosamine sulphate is subject to the following 
limitations: The sum of the percentages of their individual maximum daily doses must not exceed 120 %; 
[(e.g. a product providing a daily dose of 2000 mg glucosamine hydrochloride (100 % of the 2000 mg maximum daily dose) 
+ 300 mg glucosamine sulphate (20 % of the 1500 mg maximum daily dose) would be acceptable (100 %+20 %=120 %)]. 
Glucosamine Sulphate 
2-Amino-2-deoxy-D-glucose sulfate 
Sources: 
Crab (Exoskeleton) 
Lobster (Exoskeleton) 
Prawn and/or Sergestoidea) 
(Exoskeleton) Shrimp (Exoskeleton) 
Krill / Decapoda 
(Exoskeleton) Aspergillus 
niger (Whole) 
Single and multi-substance 
formulation: 
Helps to relieve joint pain. 
Helps to protect against the 
deterioration of cartilage. 
A factor in maintaining good cartilage 
and/or joint health. 
Consult a relevant health care provider 
prior to use if you are pregnant or 
breastfeeding. 
Not suitable for children. 
If obtained from marine 
sources: Derived from 
seafood. 
Duration of use 
Use for a minimum of 4 weeks to 
see beneficial effects. 
1 500 mg 
Must not 
contain more 
than 600 mg of 
potassium 
chloride in 
glucosamine 
sulphate 
complexed 
products. 
 
 
179 
Glucosamine Sulphate - 
Potassium Chloride 
Complex 
See Glucosamine Sulphate. 
 
 
180 
 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
Bis(2-Amino-2-deoxy-beta-D- 
glucopyranose) sulfate potassium 
chloride complex(-,-) 
Bis(D-Glucose, 2-amino-2-deoxy-), 
sulfate, potassium chloride complex 
D-Glucose, 2-amino-2-deoxy-, 
sulfate, compd. with potassium 
chloride (2:1:2) 
Glucosamine Sulphate - 
Sodium Chloride Complex 
Bis(2-Amino-2-deoxy-beta-D- 
glucopyranose) sulfate sodium 
chloride complex(-,-) 
Bis(D-Glucose, 2-amino-2-deoxy-), 
sulfate sodium chloride complex 
See Glucosamine Sulphate. 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE M: Allowable levels and claims: Saccharides 
 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage ranges.  
Minimum: Minimum Daily Levels Required for use of Health Supplement Claim Maximum: Maximum Daily Levels 
Permitted as Health Supplement 
Unless otherwise stated the dosage form is oral. 
 
General Statements: 
Warning: 
If symptoms develop, worsen or persist consult a relevant health care provider. 
Duration of Use: 
If more than one duration of use statement is indicated for a particular product formulation, only the shortest applicable 
duration of use statement is required on the labelling. 
 
 
182 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
Inulin 
Alant starch 
β-(2-1) fructans 
Sources: 
Agave tequilana (parts: stem and 
base leaves) 
Arctium lappa (parts root) 
Cichorium intybus (parts root) 
Helianthus tuberosus (parts 
tuber) 
Taraxacum officinale (parts root) 
• 
Refer to Annexure D: 
Prebiotics 
Helps support and 
maintain a healthy 
digestive system. 
Helps provide relief of 
irregular bowel movements. 
If symptoms do not improve 
within seven days, consult a 
relevant health care provider. 
Minimum: 2 g 
Maximum: 15 g 
Products providing ≥ 5 g inulin 
per dose 
• 
Take with 250 ml of water. 
• 
Take two hours before or after 
taking other medications or 
natural health products since 
the absorption of these 
products may 
be affected. 
Fructooligosaccharid
es (FOS) 
Fructooligosaccharides 
Oligofructose 
Sources: 
Beta vulgaris (Root) 
Cichorium intubus (Root) 
Helianthus tuberosus 
(Whole) Saccharum 
officinarum (Stem) 
Smallanthus sonchifolius (Root) 
• 
Refer to Annexure D: 
Prebiotics 
 
 
183 
Galactooligosaccharid
es (GOS) 
Alphagalactooligosaccharides 
Transgalactooligosaccharides 
• 
Refer to Annexure D: 
Prebiotics 
 
 
184 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
Oligofructose 
Fructooligosaccharides 
Oligofructose 
Sources: 
Beta vulgaris (Root) 
Cichorium intubus (Root) 
Helianthus tuberosus 
(Whole) Saccharum 
officinarum (Stem) 
Smallanthus sonchifolius (Root) 
• 
Refer to Annexure D: 
Prebiotics 
Polydextrose 
• 
Refer to Annexure D: 
Prebiotics 
Trans-
galactooligosaccharide 
• 
Refer to Annexure D: 
Prebiotics 
Xylooligosaccharides (fXOS) 
Source 
Zea Mays (Cob) 
• 
Refer to Annexure D: 
Prebiotics 
D-Fructose 
Fruit 
sugar 
Levulose 
Source: 
Malus domestica (fruit) 
Vitis Vinifera (fruit) 
Source of carbohydrates to 
support energy production. 
Source of calories which 
contributes to weight gain. 
Ensure sufficient fluid intake with 
use. 
For products intended for 
exercise performance or 
Combined dose for all 
ingredients (carbohydrates) in 
the product: 
6,5 to 180 g per day. 
(3 g per 100 ml intake) 
Not to exceed 45 g per single dose. 
D-Galactose 
 
 
185 
D-Glucose 
Dextrose 
Dextrose 
anyhydrous  
 D-Glucose 
Glucose 
Helps to maintain 
performance in extended 
(greater than 60 min), high-
intensity exercise. 
endurance based on 
carbohydrates: 
Not suitable for use in children 
under 18 years old. 
Products for increasing 
exercise performance 
(optional): 
Consume 45 to 90 g minutes 
before exercising. 
 
 
186 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
Source: 
Malus domestica 
(fruit) Oryza 
sativa (seed ) 
Triticum aestivum 
(flower stalk) Triticum 
aestivum (leaf ) 
Triticum aestivum 
(stem ) 
Vitis vinifera 
(fruit ) Zea 
mays (fruit) 
Dextrates 
D-glucose 
monohydrate High 
fructose corn 
syrup 
Highly branched cyclic dextrin 
Highly branched modified 
starch 
Helps to maintain endurance 
in extended (greater than 60 
min), high-intensity exercise. 
Carbohydrates, such as 
simple sugars, can provide 
muscles with energy and 
assist in muscle recovery. 
For D-Glucose only when in 
a multiple substance 
formulation: 
Dextrose (sugar) can assist in 
the absorption of water and 
electrolytes. 
Products for endurance based 
on carbohydrates (optional): 
Consume 30 to 60 g 
carbohydrates per hour of high-
intensity exercise. 
D-Mannose 
Carubinose 
Lactose 
Anhydrous lactose 
lactose 
anhydrous 
lactose 
monohydrate 
Maltodextrin 
Rice starch 
Source: Oryza sativa 
 
 
187 
D-Ribose 
Ribose 
D-Ribo-2,3,4,5- 
tetrahydroxyvaleraldehyde 
 
 
 
188 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
Sucrose 
Cane 
sugar 
Beet 
sugar 
Sacchar
ose 
Sugar 
α-D-
Glucopyranosyl- β -
D- fructofuranoside 
β -D-
Fructofuranosyl-α-
D- glucopyranoside 
Sources: 
Acer saccharum 
(sap ) Beta 
vulgaris (Root ) 
Borassus 
flabellifer (sap ) 
Malus domestica 
(fruit ) Oryza 
sativa (seed ) 
Saccharum officinarum (leaf 
stalk ) 
Corn starch 
Maize 
Starch 
Topical 
starch 
Zea mays (Corn) 
starch Zea mays 
starch 
Waxy maize starch 
Source: 
Zea mays 
 
 
189 
Potato starch 
Source: 
Solanum tuberosum 
Wheat starch 
Source: 
Triticum aestivum 
 
 
190 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
Glucomannan 
(1-6)-alpha-D-gluco-D-
mannan konjac 
manna 
mannoglu
can 
Sources: 
Amorphophallus 
bulbifer 
Amorphophallus 
konjac 
Amorphophallus 
muelleri 
Other sources: Aloe species 
Promote(s) bowel movements 
by increasing bulk volume and 
water content. 
Provide(s) 
gentle 
relief 
of 
irregular bowel movements. 
All: 
Not to be taken immediately 
before bedtime. 
Take with meals 2 hours 
before or after taking other 
medications 
Do not use if you have 
difficulty swallowing. Ensure 
sufficient fluid intake with use. 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
you have diabetes. 
Promote bowel movement or 
relief of irregular bowel 
movement: 
0,5 to 5 g 3 times per day 
The dosage form must not be a 
solid dosage form such as a 
capsule, pill or tablet. 
Contributes to the 
maintenance of normal blood 
cholesterol levels 
Daily intake of 4 g of 
glucomannan. 
The claim may be used only for 
food which provides a daily 
intake of 4 g of glucomannan. In 
order to bear the claim, 
information shall be given to the 
consumer that the beneficial 
effect is obtained with a daily 
intake 
of 4 g of glucomannan. 
 
 
191 
May assist with weight loss 
when 
used 
with 
increased 
physical activity and an energy-
reduced 
diet 
in 
healthy 
individuals. 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider if: 
• you have symptoms such as 
abdominal pain, nausea, 
vomiting or fever; or 
• symptoms worsen or if 
desired effect does not 
occur within 7 days. 
Weight loss: 
Do not use continuously for 
more than two (2) months 
without consulting your 
relevant health care provider. 
Daily intake of 3 g of 
glucomannan in three doses of 1 
g each, together with 1-2 glasses 
of water, before meals and in the 
context of an energy-restricted 
diet. 
The claim may be used only for 
food which contains 1 g of 
glucomannan per quantified 
portion. In order to bear the 
claim information shall be given 
to the consumer that the 
beneficial effect is obtained with 
a daily intake of 3 g of 
glucomannan in three doses of 1 
g each, together 
with 1-2 glasses of water, before 
 
 
192 
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
As a boxed warning: 
This product is not 
intended to prevent or treat 
obesity. 
Added to the PIL for all: 
Taking this product with 
insufficient liquid may result in 
choking and/or esophageal 
blockage/obstruction of 
the throat, esophagus or intestine. 
meals and in the context of 
an energy-restricted diet. 
Beta-glucan 
beta-D-glucan 
Source: 
Avena sativa (Parts: Seed 
bran, fiber) Hordeum 
vulgare (Parts: Seed, bran) 
If taken with meals, may 
support healthy glucose 
metabolism for two hours after a 
meal. 
If taken with meals, may 
assists glucose metabolism for 
two hours after a meal. 
Source of fiber for the 
maintenance of good health. 
Helps support and 
maintain a healthy 
digestive system. 
Containing at least 750 mg 
of beta-glucans (from the 
stated sources only) per 
serving: 
Beta-glucan when consumed as 
part of a diet low in saturated fat 
and cholesterol, may reduce risk 
of coronary heart disease (CHD). 
Not suitable for use in children 
under 18 years old. 
2 to 10 grams of per day 
 
 
193 
Pectin/s 
Citrus fruit/peel 
Sources: 
May be derived from Citrus 
aurantiifolia, Citrus limon, Citrus 
maxima, Citrus paradisi, Citrus 
reticulata, Citrus sinensis, Malus 
domestica. 
Demulcent. For the protection 
of an irritated throat. 
Stop use and ask / consult a 
relevant health care provider if 
throat symptoms worsen or 
persist for more than two (2) days. 
Taking this product with 
insufficient liquid may result in 
choking and/or esophageal 
blockage/obstruction of 
the throat, esophagus, or 
intestine. 
Permitted in lozenges only. 
 
 
194 
 
 
 
195 
ANNEXURE N Allowable levels and claims: Enzymes  
 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage ranges. 
Minimum: Minimum Daily Levels Required for use of Health Supplement Claim  
Maximum: Maximum Daily Levels Permitted as Health Supplement 
Unless otherwise stated the dosage form is oral. 
 
General Statements Warning: 
If symptoms develop, worsen or persist, consult a relevant health care provider. Not suitable for children unless under the 
care of a relevant health care provider. 
 
Duration of Use: 
If more than one duration of use statement is indicated for a particular product formulation, only the shortest applicable 
duration of use statement is required on the labelling. 
 
Statements for Digestive enzymes: 
Take with meals unless otherwise instructed by a relevant health care provider. Enteric-coated tablets: Swallow whole do 
not crush or chew. 
Consult a health care provider for prolonged use. 
For all enzymes except lactase: Not suitable for children under 18 years of age. 
 
Cautions and warnings: 
For all medicinal ingredients and ingredient combinations 
 
 
196 
Consult a relevant health care provider before use if you are pregnant or breastfeeding or for use beyond four (4) weeks. 
For products containing one or more carbohydrases 
Consult a relevant health care provider before use if you have diabetes. 
For products containing one or more proteases 
Consult a relevant health care provider before use if you 
have malabsorption or other GIT ailments or are having surgery; or 
are taking blood thinners, antibiotics or anti-inflammatory medication. 
 
Note 
The quantity must be expressed as the enzymatic activity units [Food Chemical Codex (FCC) unit]). The quantity of the 
enzymatic preparation must also be expressed in mg or ml. 
 
Abbreviations: 
Enzyme units per Food Chemical Codex (FCC) 
AGU (Amyloglucosidase Unit)  
ALU (Acid Lactase Unit) 
CU 
(Cellulase Unit) 
DP 
(Diastase Power) 
DU 
(Dextrinising Unit) 
Endo-PG (Endo-polygalacturonase units) FTU 
(Phytase Unit) 
FU 
(Fibrinolytic Unit) HCU (Hemicellulase Unit) 
HUT (Hemoglobin Unit Tyrosine base) INVU 
(Invertase Activity Unit) 
LU 
(Lactase Unit) 
 
 
197 
PC 
(Protease Unit) 
PU 
(Papain Unit) 
SAP (Spectrophotometric acid protease unit) SU (Sumner Unit) 
TU 
(Trypsin Unit) 
XU 
(Xylanase Unit) 
 
BP 
(British Pharmacopoeia) 
USP (United States Pharmacopoeia) 
 
 
 
198 
Ingredient 
Sources 
Health Supplement 
Claim 
Specified Warning(s)* 
Dosage 
1. CARBOHYDRASES 
α-Amylase 
1,4-α--D-Glucan 
glucanohydrolase 4-α--D-
glucan glucanohydrolase 
glucoamylase 
(amyloglucosidase), 
Amylase 
Diastase 
Endoamyla
se 
Glycogenas
e Taka-
amylase A 
α-amylase 
E.C.3.2.1.1 
Aspergillus flavus 
(whole) Aspergillus 
niger (whole) 
Aspergillus oryzae 
(whole) Bacillus 
licheniformis (whole cell) 
Bacillus 
stearothermophilus 
(whole cell) 
Bacillus subtilis 
(whole cell) 
Hordeum vulgare 
(seed) Rhizoptus 
niveus 
Rhizopus oryzae (whole) 
Bos taurus (bovine 
pancreas) 
Sus scrofa (porcine/hog 
pancreas) 
Digestive enzyme. 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) 
for 
carbohydrases. 
Maximum: 150 000 FCC 
DU of enzymatic activity; 
and 34 000 FCC DU per 
single dose. 
 
Glucoamylase 
Maximum: 300 FCC AGU. 
 
Diastase 
Maximum: 6 000 FCC DP. 
α-Glucosidase 
Acid maltase 
α-1,4-
glucosidase 
α-D-
glucoside 
Glucohydrol
ase E.C. 
3.2.1.20 
Glucoinvertase 
Glucosidoinverta
se 
Glucosidosucras
e Maltase 
Maltase-
glucoamylase 
Aspergillus 
niger 
Hordeum 
vulgare 
Aspergillus 
oryzae 
Rhizopus 
niveus 
Rhizopus 
oryzae 
Digestive enzyme. 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) 
for 
carbohydrases. 
Products for oral use: 
Maximum: 6 000 FCC 
DP. 
 
 
199 
Transglucosidae 
Amyloglucosi
dase 
Glucoamylae 
Cellulase 
1,4-β--D-
endoglucanase 4-
(1,3;1,4)-β--D-
glucan 4- 
Glucanohydrolase 
4-β--D-glucan 4-
Glucanohydrolase 
Carboxymethyl cellulase 
Endoglucanase 
E.C. 3.2.1.4 
Aspergillus flavus 
Aspergillus niger 
Trichoderma 
longibrachiatum 
Trichoderma reesei 
Digestive enzyme. 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) 
for 
carbohydrases. 
Maximum: 110 000 FCC 
CU of enzymatic activity. 
Hemicellulase 
1,3-β--D-xylan 
xylanohydrolase 1,4-β-
-D-mannan 
Mannanohydrolase 
Aspergillus 
niger 
Aspergillus 
oryzae 
Trichoderma 
longibrachiatum 
Trichoderma reesei 
Digestive enzyme. 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) 
for 
carbohydrases. 
Maximum: 45 000 
FCC HCU. 
1. 
CARBOHYDRASES 
1,5-α--L-
arabinan 
Arabinanohyd
rolase 
Α--L-
arabinofurano-
side 
Arabinofurano-
hydrolase E.C. 
3.2.1.55 
E.C. 3.2.1.78 
E.C. 3.2.1.99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
200 
Invertase / Sucrase 
Acid 
invertase 
Alkaline 
invertase 
Β-D-
fructofuranosid
e 
fructohydrolas
e 
Β-
fructofuranosid
ase Β-
fructosidase 
Fructosylinvert
ase 
Glucoinvertase 
Saccharase 
E.C. 3.2.1.26 
Aspergillus 
niger 
Saccharomyc
es cerevisiae 
Digestive enzyme. 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) 
for 
carbohydrases. 
Maximum: (activity 
unit/day) 3 000 FCC 
INVU 
or 
4 200 FCC SU. 
Lactase 
Β-D-galactosidase 
Β-D-galactoside 
Galactohydrolase Β-D-
lactosidase 
Β-
galactosida
se 
Galantase 
Tilactase 
E.C. 3.2.1.23 
Aspergillus flavus 
Aspergillus flavus var. 
oryzae ( Parts: Whole ) 
Aspergillus niger ( Parts: 
Whole ) Kluyveromyces 
marxianus var. lactis ( 
Parts: Whole ) 
Penicillium multicolor ( 
Parts: Whole ) 
Saccharomyc
es spp. ( 
Parts: Whole 
) 
Digestive enzyme. 
To assist in the digestion 
of foods containing lactose 
(e.g., dairy foods, milk). 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) 
for 
carbohydrases. 
Consult 
a 
relevant 
health care provider if 
symptoms 
such 
as 
abdominal 
cramps 
or 
pain, nausea, bloating, 
gas, 
and 
diarrhea 
develop, 
persist 
or 
worsen. 
Digestive enzyme: 
Maximum: 
54 000 FCC ALU of 
enzymatic activity; and 
18 000 FCC ALU per 
single dose. 
 
Lactose digestion: 
Maximum: 
3 000 to 54 000 FCC ALU 
of 
enzymatic activity; not to 
exceed 18 000 FCC ALU 
per single dose. 
Pectinase 
 (1-4)-α--D-galacturonan 
 
GlycanohydrolaseD-
Aspergillus 
niger 
Aspergillus 
oryzae 
Digestive enzyme. 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) 
for 
carbohydrases. 
Products for oral use: 
Maximum: 180 Endo-PG. 
 
 
201 
galacturonase 
Endopectinase 
Endo-polygalcturonase 
Trichoderma 
longibrachiatum 
Trichoderma reesei 
1. 
CARBOHYDRASES 
Pectin 
depolymerase 
Pectin 
glycosidase 
Pectin 
hydrolase 
Poly(1-4-α--D-
galacturonide) 
glycanohydrolase 
Polygalacturonase 
E.C. 3.1.1.11 
E.C. 3.2.1.15 
E.C. 4.2.2.10 
E.C. 4.2.2.2 
 
 
 
 
Xylanase 
1,3-β--D-xylan 
xylanohydrolase 1,4-β--
D-xylan 
xylanohydrolase 
β--
1,3-xylanase 
β -1,4-
endoxylanase 
β--1,4-
xylanase 
Endo-1,3-β--
xylanase Endo-
1,4-β—xylanase 
E.C. 3.2.1.32 
E.C. 3.2.1.8 
Must be derived only 
from Trichoderma 
longibrachiatum 
(Parts: Whole) 
Trichoderma 
reesei (Parts: 
Whole) 
Digestive enzyme. 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) 
for 
carbohydrases. 
Maximum: 3 300 XU. 
2. 
PROTEASES 
 
 
202 
Bacterial Protease 
Alcalase 
Bacillopepti
dase 
Bacillus subtilis 
alkaline protease 
Neutral protease 
Subtilisin 
E.C. 3.4.21.62 
Bacillus licheniformis 
(whole cell) 
Bacillus subtilis 
(whole cell) 
Digestive enzyme. 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) for proteases. 
Maximum: 490 000 FCC 
PC units. 
Bromelain 
Anana
se 
Bromel
ase  
Bromel
in 
Fruit 
bromelain 
Juice 
bromelain 
Pineapple fruit 
enzyme Pineapple 
protease 
Pineapple stem 
bromelain 
Pineapple stem 
enzyme Stem 
bromelain 
E.C. 3.4.22.32 
E.C. 3.4.22.33 
E.C. 3.4.4.24 
Ananas comosus Ananas 
bracteatus 
Digestive enzyme. 
Assists in the relief of 
minor inflammation. 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) for proteases. 
Hypersensitivity (e.g. 
allergy) has been known 
to occur. In such cases, 
discontinue use and 
consult a relevant health 
care provider. 
Products providing 
more than 20 000 000 
FCC PU 
of enzymatic activity 
per day: 
For occasional use only. 
Digestive enzyme: 
Maximum: 130 000 
000 FCC PU of 
enzymatic activity and 
45 000 000 FCC PU 
per single dose. 
 
Minor inflammation: 
Maximum: 
480 000 to 20 000 000 
FCC 
PU of enzymatic 
activity; and 10 000 
000 FCC PU 
per single dose. 
Chymotrypsin 
α - Chymotrypsin 
Bos taurus (bovine 
pancreas) 
Sus scrofa (porcine/hog 
pancreas) 
Digestive enzyme. 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) for proteases. 
Maximum: 480 000 
USP chymotrypsin 
units of enzymatic 
activity; and 
160 000 USP 
chymotrypsin 
 
 
203 
units per single dose. 
Fungal Protease 
Acidic 
protease 
Acid 
protease 
Acid stable protease 
Aspergillus acid protease 
Fungal protease 
Aspergillus flavus 
Aspergillus oryzae 
Aspergillus niger 
Digestive enzyme 
. Digestive aid. 
Helps digest proteins. 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) for proteases. 
Maximum: 680 000 FCC 
HUT and/or 6 800 
FCC SAP of enzymatic 
activity. 
2. 
PROTEASES 
Protease 
Protease 
3.0 
Protease 4.5 
Protease 6.0 
 
Digestive aid to help 
digest proteins. 
Digestive enzyme 
that helps digest 
proteins. 
 
 
Papain 
Carica papaya fruit and 
leaf 
Digestive enzyme 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) for proteases. 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider before use 
if you have an allergy to 
latex 
or 
fruits 
(e.g. 
avocado, 
banana, 
chestnut, passion fruit, 
fig, melon, mango, kiwi, 
pineapple, peach, and 
tomato). 
Single 
Substance 
Formulations 
Maximum: 
7 200 000 FCC PU of 
enzymatic activity; 
and 2 400 000 FCC 
PU per 
single dose 
 
Multiple 
Substance 
Formulations 
Containing both papain 
and bromelain (fruit 
and/or stem), the 
combined proteolytic 
activity should not 
 
 
204 
exceed the maximum 
proteolytic activity of 
130 000 000 FCC PU. 
Pepsin 
Sus scrofa (porcine/hog 
stomach) 
Digestive enzyme 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) for proteases. 
Maximum: 1 900 
000 FCC Pepsin 
units of 
enzymatic 
activity. 
Trypsin 
Tryptase 
Tryptic 
enzyme 
E.C. 
3.4.21.4 
E.C. 
3.4.4.4 
Bos taurus (bovine 
pancreas) 
Sus scrofa (porcine/hog 
pancreas) 
Digestive enzyme 
See General Statements 
– 
cautions 
and 
warning(s) for proteases. 
Maximum: 1 200 000 USP 
Trypsin units of 
enzymatic 
activity; and 400 
000 USP TU per 
single dose. 
3. 
PANCREALYTIC ENZYMES 
Pancreatin 
Pancreatic enzymes 
Pancreatic extract 
Pancrelipase 
Bos taurus (bovine 
pancreas) 
Sus scrofa (porcine/hog 
pancreas) 
Digestive 
enzyme. Digestive 
aid. 
May assist digestion and 
decrease bloating after 
high caloric, high fat 
meals. 
See General Statements. 
Use the smallest effective 
dose. 
Pancreatin is a 
combination of amylase, 
lipase and protease 
enzymes. 
Pancreatin contains in 
each mg not less than: 
Amylase: 17 000 to 149
000 USP amylase units per 
day, not to exceed 37 000 
USP units per single dose 
 
 
 
 
• Lipase: 5 000 to 40 
000 USP lipase units 
per day, not to exceed 
20 000 USP units per 
single dose 
 
 
205 
 
 
 
 
• Protease: 16 000 to 
125 000 USP 
protease units per 
day, not to exceed 38 
000 USP units per 
single dose 
4. OTHER ENZYMES 
Catalase 
Hydrogen-peroxide 
oxidoreductase Catalase-
peroxidase 
E.C. 1.11.16 
Aspergillus flavus (whole) 
Aspergillus niger (whole) 
Penicillium 
simplicissimum (whole 
cell) 
Pisum sativum (whole) 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
(whole) 
Digestive enzyme 
See General Statements. 
• Maximum: 3 200 
FCC Baker units. 
Lipase 
Triacylglycerol acyl 
hydrolase 
Triacylglycerol 
lipase acid 
lipase 
adipose triglyceride 
lipase Aspergillus flavus 
var.oryzae lipase 
Aspergillus niger lipase 
Candida rugosa 
lipase Rhizopus 
oryzae lipase 
triacylglycerol 
acylhydrolase 
triacylglycerol 
lipase triglyceride 
lipase 
E.C. 3.1.1.3 
Aspergillus 
flavus 
Aspergillus 
niger Candida 
cylindrica 
Candida 
rugosa 
Rhizomucor 
miehei 
Rhizopus 
oryzae Ricinus 
communis 
Bos taurus (bovine 
pancreas) 
Sus scrofa (porcine/hog 
pancreas) 
Digestive enzyme 
See General Statements. 
• Maximum: 110 000 
FCC LU of enzymatic 
activity; and 30 000 
FCC LU per single 
dose. 
Phytase 
Aspergillus 
niger 
Digestive enzyme 
See General Statements. 
• Maximum: 42 mg or 
 
 
206 
1-phytase 3-phytase 
 
 
 
75 FCC FTU once a day, 
or 
• 7 FCC Units three 
times a 
4-phytase 
6-Phytase 
 
 
 
day. 
Myo-inositol-
hexakisphosphate 3- 
 
 
 
 
phosphohydrolase 
 
 
 
 
myo-inositol-
hexakisphosphate 4- 
 
 
 
 
phosphohydrolase 
 
 
 
 
orthophosphoric-mono 
ester 
 
 
 
 
phosphohydrolase 
 
 
 
 
E.C. 3.1.3.2 
 
 
 
 
E.C. 3.1.3.26 
 
 
 
 
E.C. 3.1.3.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
207 
ANNEXURE O: Allowable levels and claims: Other 
Note: Any claims provided may be used with any of the stipulated dosage ranges.  
Minimum: Minimum Daily Levels Required for use of Health Supplement Claim  
Maximum: Maximum Daily Levels Permitted as Health Supplement 
 
General Statements: 
Warning: 
Consult a relevant health care provider: prior to use if you are pregnant or breastfeeding; or if symptoms worse. 
Unless otherwise stated: 
Not suitable for children unless under the care of a relevant health care provider. 
Duration of Use: 
If more than one duration of use statement is indicated for a particular product formulation, only the shortest applicable 
duration of use statement is required on the labelling. 
Consult a relevant health care provider for prolonged use.
                                 
 
 
208
Ingredient 
Health Supplement Claim 
Specified Warning(s) 
Dosage 
5-HTP 
5-Hydroxy-L-
tryptophan L-5-
Hydroxytryptoph
an 5-hydroxy 
tryptamine 
Sources: 
Griffonia simplicifolia (DC.) 
Baill. [seed]. Concentrated 
or standardised extracts of 
G. simplicifolia are 
considered discipline-
specific medicines and not 
health supplements. 
For health supplement 
use, only the pure 
compound, isolated from 
G. simplicifolia, may be 
used. 
Helps to promote healthy 
mood balance. 
Used as a sleep aid. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use if you are 
taking carbidopa or 
medicines/supplements with 
serotonergic activity. These may 
include, but are not limited to, L- 
tryptophan, S-
Adenosylmethionine (SAMe), St. 
John's wort, antidepressants, 
pain killers, over the counter 
cough and cold medication 
containing dextromethorphan, 
anti- nausea medication and 
anti-migraine medication. 
Stop use and consult a relevant 
health care provider if you show 
signs of weakness, oral ulcers, 
abdominal pain accompanied by 
severe muscle pain or if you 
experience skin changes. 
Avoid taking with alcohol or 
products that cause drowsiness. 
Sleep aid: 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider if sleeplessness 
persists continuously for more 
than 4 weeks (chronic 
insomnia). 
Refer to PPB Guideline 2.14 for 
warning statement related to 
drowsiness and driving or 
operation of machinery. 
Healthy mood balance 
150 to 220 mg of 5-HTP, per day; 
To minimize the risk of 
gastrointestinal side effects, start 
dosing at 100 mg, 2 - 3 times per 
day and slowly increase to 
effective dose over 2-week period. 
Sleep aid 
100 to 220 mg of 5-HTP, per day. 
Take 30 - 45 minutes before 
bedtime. 
                                 
 
 
209
Agar 
Gelidium amansii 
extract Japanese 
isinglass 
Seaweed 
mucilage 
Sources: 
Gelidium amansii (Parts: 
Whole plant) 
Gelidium amansii and other 
red algae whole plant 
(thallus) of the families 
Gelidiaceae and 
Gracilariaceace and the 
relevant red algae of the 
class Rhodophyceae 
Assists with gastro-
intestinal health. Enhances 
intestinal health. 
Taking this product without 
adequate ﬂuid may cause it to 
swell and block your throat or 
esophagus and may cause 
choking. Do not take this product 
if you have difﬁculty in 
swallowing. If you experience 
chest pain, vomiting, or difﬁculty 
in swallowing or breathing after 
taking this product, seek 
immediate medical attention. 
Contraindication: Gastric bypass. 
Maximum: 16,5 g, divided into 
three doses of 2,75 to 5,5 g. 
Only for internal use when the 
medicine contains less than 150 µg 
of iodine per maximum daily dose. 
Betaine hydrochloride 
1-carboxy-N,N,N- 
trimethylmethanaminium, 
chloride glycine betaine 
hydrochloride trimethyl 
glycine hydrochloride 
Sources: 
Beta vulgaris (Part: Root) 
Helps to support liver function 
Helps to support 
digestion/digestive aid. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use if you have 
a peptic ulcer or excess stomach 
acid. 
Products providing 780 mg or more 
of Betaine hydrochloride as a 
medicinal ingredient or as a source 
ingredient, per day: 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use if you have 
high cholesterol. 
Adults 18 years and older only: 
Liver function: 
500 mg to 1 500 mg per day 
Digestive aid: 
180 mg to 1 500 mg per day. 
Take with food/meal. 
Brewer’s Yeast 
Torula yeast: 
Candida utilis 
Sources: 
Dried yeast of 
Helps support 
intestinal/gastrointestinal 
health. 
Assists to establish a favorable 
gut flora. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use if you have 
fever, vomiting, bloody diarrhea or 
severe abdominal pain. 
Stop use and consult a relevant
health care provider if symptoms of
Gastrointestinal health-related: 
Minimum: 1,0 x 107 CFU/day 
Source of B-vitamins, minerals 
or protein: 
The specific claims for B-
vitamins, protein and minerals 
                                 
 
 
210
sources: 
Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae 
Saccharomyces 
fragilis 
Saccharomyces 
boulardii 
Source of B vitamins and protein. 
digestive upset (e.g. diarrhea) occur,
worsen and/or persists beyond 3
days. 
may be used provided that the 
minimum Health Supplement 
dosage of the specific 
 
Source of minerals chromium, 
selenium, potassium, iron, zinc 
and magnesium. 
(see Annexures E and F). 
Contraindication(s): 
Do not use this product if you have 
an immune-compromised 
condition (e.g. AIDS, lymphoma, 
patients undergoing long-term 
corticosteroid treatment). 
substance is supplied by the 
Brewer’s yeast. 
Dosage must meet the 
requirements for Minimum/ 
Maximum daily values of 
substances listed in other 
annexures (e.g., Vitamins, 
Proteins & Amino acids). 
Source of minerals chromium, 
selenium, potassium, iron, zinc 
and magnesium. 
(see Annexures E and F). 
Contraindication(s): 
Do not use this product if you 
have an immune-compromised 
condition (e.g. AIDS, lymphoma, 
patients undergoing long-term 
corticosteroid treatment). 
substance is supplied by the 
Brewer’s yeast. 
Dosage must meet the 
requirements for Minimum/ 
Maximum daily values of 
substances listed in other 
annexures (e.g., Vitamins, 
Proteins & Amino acids). 
Caffeine 
See Guideline 7.06 for guidance on use as a Health Supplement: Multiple Substance Formulation. 
Cannabidiol 
See Guideline 7.06 for guidance on use as a Health Supplement. 
                                 
 
 
211
Charcoal activated 
activated 
carbon 
medicinal 
carbon 
vegetable 
charcoal 
Sources: 
Common charcoal 
heated in the presence 
of a gas. 
Activated charcoal contributes 
to reducing excessive 
flatulence after eating. 
Digestion support. 
When for internal use, the 
medicine requires the following 
warning statement on the 
medicine label: 
” Products containing activated 
charcoal should be used with 
caution in children or 
individuals with malabsorption 
conditions since it may interfere 
with absorption of nutrients.” 
Activated charcoal may interact 
with other medicines. 
Activated charcoal is not 
recommended for long-term 
use. 
Adults 18 years and older only: 
Reducing excessive flatulence: 
Take 1 g 30 minutes before and 
after a meal 
Digestion support: 
200 mg capsules: 1 or 2 per day. 
Chlorella 
Sources: 
Chlorella 
vulgaris 
Chlorella 
pyrenoidosa 
(source must be broken cells 
only) 
Source of antioxidants. 
Source of vitamins and/or 
minerals (see permitted claims 
as per Annexure E and F). 
Source of protein. 
As for Iodine and Potassium. 
Products providing 250 mg or more 
of chlorella per day: 
Take a few hours before or 
after taking other medicines. 
Maximum: 6 g of broken cells 
Ensure that iodine and 
potassium levels as stated in 
the relevant annexures are 
not exceeded. 
 
Source of (an) (essential) amino 
acid(s) (see permitted claims as per 
Annexure G) 
Products providing 250 mg or more 
of chlorella per day or 6 µg or more 
vitamin K per day: 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use if you are 
taking blood thinners. 
Products containing chlorella 
enriched with selenium and 
providing 70 µg or more of 
selenium per day: 
Consult a relevant health care 
Source of vitamins and/or 
minerals and Source of (an) 
(essential) amino acid(s): 
Dosage must meet the 
requirements for Minimum/ 
Maximum daily values of 
substances listed in other 
annexures (e.g., Vitamins, 
Minerals, Proteins & Amino 
acids). 
Iodine is a mandatory component 
                                 
 
 
212
provider prior to use if you have a 
history of non-melanoma skin 
cancer. 
of Chlorella: 
Only for external use when the 
concentration of iodine in the 
medicine (excl. salts 
derivatives or iodophors) is 2,5 
% or less. 
Only for internal use when the 
medicine contains less than 150 µg 
of iodine per maximum 
recommended daily dose. 
Choline 
(beta- hydroxyethyl) 
trimethylammonium 2-
Hydroxy-N,N,N- 
trimethylethanaminium 
Choline 
bitartrate 
Choline 
chloride 
Choline dihydrogen 
citrate Choline 
orotate 
Lecithin 
Phosphatidylcholine 
Helps to support liver function. 
A factor in the maintenance of 
good health. 
27,5 mg to 1 000 mg per day 
Co-enzyme Q10 
2,5-Cyclohexadiene-1,4-
dione, 2- 
[(2E,6E,10E,14E,18E,22E,26
E 
,30E,34E)-3,7,11,15,19, 
23,27,31,35,39-
decamethyl- 
2,6,10,14,18,22,26,
30,34, 
38-tetracontadecaenyl] 
-5,6-dimethoxy-3-meth 
An antioxidant. 
Contributes to the protection of 
cells from oxidative stress 
Helps to maintain and / or 
support cardiovascular health. 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider prior to use if you are 
taking blood pressure 
medication. 
Products providing more than 100 
mg of Coenzyme Q10 per day 
Consult a health care 
practitioner prior to use if you 
are taking blood thinners. 
Antioxidant: 
Maximum: 300 mg 
Cardiovascular health: 
30 to 300 mg per day. 
                                 
 
 
213
Coenzyme 
Q10 CoQ10 
Ubidecare
none 
Ubiquinone
-1 
Sources: 
Agrobacterium 
rhizogenes 
Agrobacterium 
tumefaciens 
Aspergillus clavatus 
Escherichia coli 
Gluconobacter 
suboxydans 
Leucosporidium 
scotti Paracoccus 
denitrificans 
Rhodobacter 
sphaeroides 
Rhodospirillum 
rubrum 
Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae 
Schizosaccharomyces pombe 
Inositol 
Inositol dihydrate 
Inositol 
hexanicotinate 
Inositol 
monophosphate 
Hexahydroxycyclohexane, 
synonyms 1,2,3,4,5,6-
Cyclohexanehexol, 
cis-1,2,3,5-
trans-4,6- 
Cyclohexanehe
xol Myo-
The use of this substance for 
the treatment of 
disease/pathological states 
renders it a Category A 
medicine. 
Insufficient data is available 
indicating the use of this 
ingredient and its health benefits 
or promotion in healthy 
individuals. 
For its use as a health supplement, 
inositol must be combined with at 
Consult a relevant health care 
provider before use if you suspect 
that you may have insulin 
resistance, high blood glucose 
levels or diabetes. 
Warnings applicable to the 
ingredients with which 
Inositol is combined must 
apply. 
Maximum: 650 mg 
Note: Evidence available for the 
use of inositol in doses greater 
than 
650 mg per day is generally 
only in the context of a clinical 
trial for the treatment of an 
identified pathological/disease 
state. 
Applications in terms of Annexure 
B may be undertaken 
demonstrating the 
                                 
 
 
214
Inositol 
D-Chiro-inositol (of Glycine 
max) 
D-inositol 
least 
Sources: 
Chlorella vulgaris ( Parts: 
Broken cell ) Glycine max ( 
Parts: Seed ) 
Oryza sativa ( Parts: 
Seed ) Zea mays ( 
Parts: Seed ) 
Zea mays ( Parts: Whole 
plant ) 
one other medicinal ingredient 
listed in Annexure E (Vitamins), 
Annexure F (Minerals) or the 
following specified ingredients: 
Beta-carotene, Choline, Lutein, 
Lycopene, or L-Methionine, from 
which the wording for the claim 
must be drawn. 
Inositol may also be combined with 
any other medicinal ingredient 
listed in the health supplement 
annexures and its use 
substantiated by the claim of the 
other substance. 
benefit profile of supplementation 
to healthy individuals of doses 
greater than 650 mg daily. 
Methylsulphonylmethane 
MSM 
Dimethyl 
sulfone 
Sulfonylbisme
thane 
For joint health. 
A factor in maintaining joint health.
Provides support for healthy 
joints, joint mobility and joint 
comfort 
Not to be taken at bedtime. 
Maximum: 6 000 mg. 
1 500 to 6 000 mg per day for 
minimum of 4 weeks to see 
beneficial effects. 
Not to exceed 2 000 mg per 
single dose. 
                                 
 
 
215
para-Aminobenzoic acid 
PABA 
4-Aminobenzoic acid 
Para-Aminobenzoic 
acid,
ethyl ester 
Sources: 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
No claim can be supported based 
on this medicinal ingredient. 
PABA must be combined with at 
least 
one 
other 
medicinal 
ingredient listed in Annexure E 
(Vitamins), Annexure F (Minerals), 
Beta-carotene, 
Choline, 
Lutein, 
Lycopene, or L-Methionine, from 
which the claim is drawn. 
Stop use if hypersensitivity or 
allergy occurs and consult a 
relevant health care provider. 
Contact a relevant health 
care provider if you are 
taking sulphonamides. 
18 years and older: 
1 200 mg per day 
Propolis 
See Guideline 7.06 for guidance on use as a Health Supplement. (To be published for comment) 
Spirulina 
Spirulina represents 
a 
biomass 
of 
cyanobacteria 
(blue- 
green algae) 
Sources: 
Arthrospira platensis – whole
cell 
Arthrospira maxima 
– whole cell 
Source of/Provides antioxidants. 
Contributes 
to 
maintaining 
normal immune responses to 
seasonal 
and 
environmental 
allergens. 
Uses based on constituent potency 
at or above the minimum doses 
indicated in the dose section below: 
Source of beta-carotene 
(see permitted claims for 
beta- carotene). 
Source of iron 
(see permitted claims for iron). 
Source 
of 
protein 
for 
the 
maintenance of good health. 
Source of protein which helps 
build and repair body tissues. 
Source of (an) essential amino 
acid(s) for the maintenance of good 
health. 
Acceptable dosage forms by 
age group: 
Children 
2 
years: 
The 
acceptable dosage forms are 
limited 
to 
emulsion/suspension 
and 
solution/liquid preparations. 
Children 
3-5 
years: 
The 
acceptable dosage forms are 
limited 
to 
chewables, 
emulsion/suspension, powders 
and 
solution/liquid 
preparations. 
Children 
6-11 
years, 
Adolescents 12-17 years, and 
Adults 18 years and older: 
Consult a relevant health 
care provider prior to use if 
you have an autoimmune
disease. 
Maximum 
doses 
should 
not 
result in excess of maximum daily 
values of substances listed in 
other annexures (e.g. vitamins, 
minerals). 
Daily 
doses 
for 
symptoms 
associated with 
seasonal 
and 
environmental allergens: 
Children: 
2-4 years: 0,3 g to 1 g 
5-9 years: 0,5 g to 2 g 
10-14 years: 1 g to 4 g 
Adolescents: 
15 to 17 years: 2 g to 8g 
Adults: 
18 years and older: 2 g to 8 g 
Daily doses as algal protein: 
Children: 
2-4 years: 0, 6 g to 1 g 
5-9 years: 0,9 g to 2 g 
10-11 years: 1,5 g to 4 g 
Adolescents: 
12 to 14 years: 1,5 g - 4g 
15 to 17 years: 2,6 g - 8g 
                                 
 
 
216
Source 
of 
(an) 
(essential) 
amino 
acid(s) 
involved 
in 
muscle protein synthesis. 
Adults: 
18 years and older: 2,6 g to 8 g 
Maximum dose of Spirulina 
as a source of beta-carotene: 
Children: 
2 to 4 years: 1 g 
    5 to 9 years: 2 g 
   10 to 14 years: 4 g 
   Adolescents: 
15 – 17 years: 8 g 
    Adults: 
18 years and older: 8 g 
 
Maximum dose of Spirulina 
as a source of iron: 
Children: 
2 to 4 years: 1 g 
5 to 9 years: 2 g 
10 to 14 years: 4 g 
Adolescents: 
15 – 17 years: 8 g 
Adults: 
18 years and older: 8 
g 
 
The following substances have been identified for entries into Guideline 7.06 which will reference use of a Health Supplement: 
Glucuronolactone 
See Guideline 7.06 for guidance on use as a Health Supplement. (To be published for comment) 
Piperine 
See Guideline 7.06 for guidance on use as a Health Supplement. (To be published for comment) 
Propolis 
See Guideline 7.06 for guidance on use as a Health Supplement. (To be published for comment) 
 
 
