 
 
i 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iii 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iv 
 
I. ABBREVIATIONS 
GMP 
Good Manufacturing Practices 
CSDT 
Common Submission Dossier Template 
EUNB 
European Union Notified Bodies 
EWG 
Experts Working Group 
GMDN 
Global Medical Devices Nomenclature 
HIV 
Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
IMDRF 
International Medical Devices Regulators Forum 
IVD-MD 
In-Vitro Diagnostics Medical Device 
LAR 
Local Authorized Representative 
LM 
Legal Manufacturer 
PMA 
Pre-Market Approval 
STED 
 Summary 
Technical 
Documentation 
for 
Demonstrating 
Conformity to the Essential Principles of Safety and 
Performance of Medical Devices 
UDI 
Unique Devise Identification 
UMDNS 
Universal Medical Device Nomenclature System 
US FDA 
US Food and Drug Administration 
WHO 
World Health Organization 
 
 
 
.      
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
v 
 
II. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
The Board acknowledges all the authors and contributors who contributed 
to the preparation of this document. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vi 
 
III. 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
The definitions given below apply to the terms as used in this document. They 
may have different meanings in other contexts. 
 
Applicant: is the person applying for a medical device registration. 
Intended Use: means the objective intended use or purpose, as reflected in 
the specifications, instructions and information provided by the medical 
device owner of the medical device. 
Label: in relation to a health product, means any written, printed or graphic 
representation that appears on or is attached to the health product or active 
ingredient or any part of its packaging, and includes any informational sheet 
or leaflet that accompanies the health product or active ingredient when it is 
being supplied. 
Medical device: any instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, appliance, 
implant, reagent for in vitro use, software, material or other similar or related 
article, intended by the manufacturer to be used, alone or in combination, for 
human beings, for one or more of the specific medical purpose(s) of: 
a. diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of disease, 
b. diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, alleviation of or compensation for an 
injury, 
c. investigation, replacement, modification, or support of the anatomy or 
of a physiological process, 
d. supporting or sustaining life, 
e. control of conception, 
f. disinfection of medical devices, 
g. providing information by means of in vitro examination of specimens 
derived from the human body;  
h. disinfection substances, 
i. aids for persons with disabilities, 
j. devices incorporating animal and/or human tissues, 
k. Devices for in-vitro fertilization or assisted reproduction technologies. 
and does not achieve its primary intended action by pharmacological, 
immunological or metabolic means, in or on the human body, but which may 
be assisted in its intended function by such means.   
In-Vitro Diagnostics Medical Device (IVD-MD): a medical device, whether 
used alone or in combination, intended by the manufacturer for the in vitro 
examination of specimens derived from the human body solely or principally 
to provide information for diagnostic, monitoring or compatibility purposes. 
 
 
vii 
 
Manufacturer; 
a. Natural or legal person with responsibility for the design, manufacture, 
packaging and labelling of a device before it is placed on the market 
under his own name, regardless of whether these operations are carried 
out by that person her/himself or on her/his behalf by a third party. 
b. The obligations of this guideline to be met by manufacturers also apply 
to the natural or legal person who assembles, packages, processes, fully 
refurbishes and/or labels one or more ready-made products and/or 
assigns to them their intended purpose as a device with a view to their 
being placed on the market under his own name. 
Product Owner (Legal Manufacturer (LM): a person who sells a medical 
device under his own name, or under a trade-mark, design, trade name or 
other name or mark owned or controlled by the person, and who is responsible 
for one or more of the following activities:-designing, manufacturing, 
assembling, processing, labelling, packaging, refurbishing or modifying the 
device, or for assigning to it a purpose, whether those tasks are performed by 
that person or on his behalf. 
Serious Deterioration in the state of Health: in relation to a person, means; 
• 
a life-threatening illness or injury suffered by that person; 
• 
a permanent impairment of a bodily function of that person; 
• 
any permanent damage to any part of that person’s body; or 
• 
a condition requiring medical or surgical intervention to prevent any 
such permanent impairment or damage. 
Accessory: An article which whilst not being a device is intended specifically 
by its Manufacturer to be used together with a device to enable it to be used 
in accordance with the use of the device intended by the manufacturer of the 
device. 
Risk: Probability of occurrence of harm and the severity of that harm. 
Universal Medical Device Nomenclature System (UMDNS)- A system used    
to facilitate identifying, processing, filing, storing, retrieval, transferring, and 
communicating data about Medical Devices. UMDNS Includes all Medical 
Devices and Supplies, clinical laboratory Equipment and IVD’s, Generic Tests, 
Medical Software related to Devices, Selected Hospital Furniture, Systems and 
Test Equipment, as well as personal and assistive devices. 
Unique Devise Identification (UDI)- A series of Numeric or alphanumeric 
characters that is created through a coding system. It allows the unambiguous 
identification of a specific product on the Market and represents the ‘access 
Key’ to Device related information stored in the UDI data. The UDI comprises 
the Device Identifier and Production Identifier. 
Global Medical Devices Nomenclature (GMDN) – A Poly-Hierarchical system 
of identifying Medical Devices into collective Terms which give a Device 
attribute and high-Level terms allowing analysis of the Device by Product 
attribute or Feature. 
 
 
viii 
 
Non-Invasive Medical Devices- A device which in whole or in part does not 
penetrate the body, either through a body orifice or through the surface of the 
body. 
Invasive Medical Devices: A device, which, in whole or in part, penetrates 
inside the body, either through a body orifice or through the surface of the 
body.  
Body orifice:  Any natural opening in the body, as well as the external surface 
of the eyeball, or any permanent artificial opening, such as a stoma or 
permanent tracheotomy. 
Surgically invasive device: An invasive device which penetrates inside the 
body through the surface of the body, with the aid or in the context of a 
surgical operation. 
Active Medical Devices: any medical device relying for its functioning on a 
source of electrical energy or any source of power other than that directly 
generated by the human body or gravity and which acts by converting this 
energy. 
Accessory: An article which, is intended specifically by its manufacturer to: 
• 
be used together with a parent device to enable that device achieve its 
intended use as an IVD Medical Device. 
• 
or to augment or extend the capabilities of the parent device in 
fulfilment of its intended use as an IVD Medical Device. 
 
IVD Medical Device for Self-testing: Any device intended by the 
manufacturer for use by lay persons. 
Examination: Set of operations having the object of determining the value of 
a property.  
Note: In the IVD Medical Device industry and in many laboratories that use 
IVD Medical Devices, examination of an analyte in a biological sample is 
commonly referred to as a test, assay or analysis.  
Harm: Physical injury or damage to the health of people or damage to property 
or the environment.   
Hazard:  Potential source of harm.  
Intended use / purpose: The objective intent of the manufacturer regarding 
the use of a product, process or service as reflected in the specifications, 
instructions and information provided by the manufacturer.  
Instrument: equipment or apparatus intended by the manufacturer to be 
used as IVD Medical Device. 
IVD Medical Device: A device, whether used alone or in combination, 
intended by the manufacturer for the in-vitro examination of specimens 
derived from the human body solely or principally to provide information 
for diagnostic, monitoring or compatibility purposes. This includes 
reagents, calibrators, control materials, specimen receptacles, software, 
and related instruments or apparatus or other articles.  
Reagent: chemical, biological or immunological components, solutions or 
preparations intended by the manufacturer to be used as IVD Medical 
Devices.  
Lay person: individual that does not have formal training in a specific field or 
discipline  
 
 
ix 
 
Near patient (testing): Testing performed outside a laboratory environment 
by a professional other than a laboratory professional, generally near to, 
or at the side of, the patient. 
Risk:  Combination of the probability of occurrence of harm and the severity 
of that harm. 
Self-testing: Testing [examination to align with labelling standard] performed 
by lay persons. 
Specimen receptacle: a device, whether vacuum-type or not, specifically 
intended by their manufacturers for the primary containment of 
specimens derived from the human body.  
Transmissible agent: An agent capable of being transmitted to a person, as 
a communicable, infectious or contagious disease. 
Transmission: The conveyance of disease to a person.  
Local Authorized Representative – Any manufacturer based outside the 
Kenya must designate a local authorized representative (LAR). The appointed 
LAR must provide written evidence that they are acting with the consent of 
a manufacturer located outside the Kenya. The responsibility of the LAR is, 
to assure regulatory compliance and serve as the central communication 
pathway with the PPB 
 
 
1.0 
PART ONE 
1.1 INTRODUCTION 
The Pharmacy and Poisons Board (PPB) is the National Regulatory Authority 
established under the Pharmacy and Poisons Act, Cap 244 of the Laws of 
Kenya, to regulate the profession of pharmacy and ensure the safety, quality 
and efficacy/effectiveness of health products and health technologies 
including medical devices and in vitro diagnostics. 
Medical devices including In vitro diagnostics constitute a vital component of 
health products and health technologies that contribute to the attainment of 
the highest attainable standards of health for all citizens as envisioned in 
Article 43 of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010.  
In 2007, the World Health Organization advised member states on the 
mechanism for the regulation of Medical Devices including In-Vitro 
Diagnostics (IVD’s) through Resolutions 67.29 and Resolutions 60.27 
‘regulatory system strengthening for medical products and the WHO global 
model regulatory framework for Medical Devices including In vitro diagnostics 
(IVDs).’  This recommendation was adopted by the PPB in 2012 resulting in 
 
 
10 
 
evaluation of applications for marketing authorization of medical devices 
including IVDs.  
This Guideline provides a framework for Evaluation and Registration of 
Medical Devices Including In-Vitro Diagnostics including the evaluation 
pathways to be followed for different applications. It provides for the risk 
classification of medical devices according to the different classes and specifies 
the requirements applicable for each class.  
This document should be read alongside other PPB Guidelines and applicable 
legislation such as the Nuclear Regulatory Act (Cap 243) which provides for 
the production and use of radiation sources and management of radioactive 
waste. Applicants are therefore reminded that, notwithstanding the 
registration of a medical device under the Pharmacy and Poisons Act, the 
supply and use of any medical device including IVDs in Kenya should also 
comply with the requirements under other applicable legislations and the 
requirements to monitor market performance of the registered medical devices 
including IVDs. 
This Guideline should be implemented while taking into consideration Good 
Regulatory Practices (GRP) that guide all personnel at the PPB in making 
regulatory decisions that are legal, clear, transparent, consistent, impartial, 
proportionate, prompt, and scientifically sound. 
If there are any contradictions between the guidance documents and any 
written law, the latter shall take precedence. 
1.2 LEGAL FRAMEWORK 
The PPB is empowered under Section 3A(a) of the Pharmacy and Poisons Act 
(“the Act”) to formulate guidelines for regulating the manufacture, import and 
export, distribution, sale and use of medical products including medical 
devices and IVDs.  
Further, the PPB is empowered under Section 3A of the Act grant or withdraw 
marketing authorization for medical devices and IVDs subject to appropriate 
 
 
11 
 
conditions and revise such conditions for marketing authorization as 
necessary. 
This guideline is intended to implement the requirements of the Act stipulated 
under Section 3B(2)(b) to ensure that all medicinal products manufactured in, 
imported into or exported from the country conform to prescribed standards 
of quality, safety and efficacy. In doing so, Section 3B(2)(i) of the Act requires 
the PPB to consider applications for approval and alterations of dossiers 
intended for use in marketing authorization of medicinal substances. 
In performing its regulatory functions, the PPB is empowered under Section 
3B92) (r) of the Act to collaborate with other national, regional and 
international institutions on medical substances regulation. This enables the 
PPB to recognize and rely on registrations and certifications from notified 
bodies and listed reference regulatory authorities. The remains independent, 
responsible and accountable for the decisions taken, even when it relies on 
the decisions, assessments and information of others. 
1.3 SCOPE: 
This Guideline describes the processes and general requirements for the 
submission of an application for registration of medical devices and In-Vitro 
diagnostics.  
a) These guidelines shall apply to medical devices and their accessories.  
b) Where a device is intended to administer a medicinal product, that 
device shall be governed by this guideline, without prejudice to the 
corresponding regulations for registration of medicinal products for 
human and veterinary use set by the PPB.  
c) Where a device incorporates, as an integral part, a substance which, if 
used separately, may be considered to be a medicinal product and 
which is liable to act upon the body with action ancillary to that of the 
device, that device must be assessed and authorized in accordance with 
this guideline. 
 
 
12 
 
2.0 
PART TWO 
2.1 RISK BASED CLASSIFICATION FOR MEDICAL DEVICES 
The inherent risk of a medical device depends substantially on its intended 
purpose and the effectiveness of the risk management techniques applied 
during design, manufacture and use. 
Other considerations in risk classification include its intended user(s), its 
mode of operation and the technology used. Examples of factors influencing 
risk classification include the duration of medical device contact with the 
body, the degree of invasiveness, whether the medical device delivers 
medicinal products or energy to the patient, whether they are intended to have 
a biological effect on the patient and local versus systemic effects, etc. Annex: 
5; Risk Based Classification of Medical Devices and Examples (In-Exhaustive 
List) 
Table 1: Risk Based Classification of Medical Devices with Examples  
CLASS RISK LEVEL 
EXAMPLES 
A 
Low Risk 
➢ Cotton wool, bandages, urine collection 
bottles; compression hosiery; non-
invasive electrodes, hospital beds. 
B 
Low-moderate 
➢ Urinary catheters, tracheal tubes. 
➢ Orthodontic materials, removable 
dental prosthesis 
C 
Moderate-high 
➢ urethral stent; contact lenses for long-
term continuous use 
➢ catheter containing sealed 
radioisotopes 
D 
High Risk 
➢ Pacemakers; Implantable defibrillators. 
➢ prosthetic heart valves; cardiovascular 
stents; pacemaker leads and electrodes; 
deep brain stimulation electrodes; 
cerebrospinal catheter. 
 
 
13 
 
 
Medical devices vary greatly in complexity and application. Examples range 
from simple devices such as tongue depressors, medical thermometers, 
and disposable gloves to advanced devices such as computers which assist in 
the 
conduct 
of medical 
testing, implants 
including 
those 
used 
for 
contraception and prostheses. The design of medical devices constitutes a 
major segment of the field of biomedical engineering. 
For the purpose of this guidance document, the rules applied for the risk-
based classification of Medical devices are as below; 
a. Non-Invasive Medical Devices - A device which in whole or in part does 
not penetrate the body, either through a body orifice or through the 
surface of the body. 
b. Invasive Medical Devices- A device, which, in whole or in part, 
penetrates inside the body, either through a body orifice or through the 
surface of the body.  
i. 
Body orifice:  Any natural opening in the body, as well as the 
external surface of the eyeball, or any permanent artificial 
opening, such as a stoma or permanent tracheotomy. 
ii. 
Surgically invasive device:  An invasive device which penetrates 
inside the body through the surface of the body, with the aid or 
in the context of a surgical operation. 
c. Active Medical Devices - any medical device relying for its 
functioning on a source of electrical energy or any source of power 
other than that directly generated by the human body or gravity and 
which acts by converting this energy 
d. Exceptional Classes  
i. 
Medical Devices which Incorporate Medicinal Substances 
i. 
Devices manufactured from or incorporate non-viable animal 
tissues or their derivatives 
ii. 
Medical Devices- used for sterilizing or Disinfecting Medical 
Devices 
iii. Medical 
Devices 
Incorporating 
Animal 
or 
Human 
Cells/Tissues/Derivatives 
 
 
14 
 
iv. Medical Devices for Ophthalmic Solutions Use 
v. 
Medical Devices for Contraception or the prevention of Sexually 
Transmitted Diseases’ (STD’s) 
vi. Implantable Medical Devices for Long-term Use 
e. More than one class 
a. 
Where a medical device has features that place it into more than 
one class, classification and conformity assessment should be 
based on the highest class indicated. 
b. 
The actual classification of a Medical Device is determined by the 
Manufacturer and on its intended use. 
2.1.1 Determination of Device Classification using this Rules-based 
System 
The manufacturer should: 
a. Decide if the product concerned is a medical device, using the 
appropriate definition. 
b. Document the intended use of the medical device. 
c. Take into consideration all the rules that follow in order to establish the 
proper classification for the device, noting that where a medical device 
has features that place it into more than one class, classification and 
conformity assessment should be based on the highest class indicated. 
d. Determine if the device is subject to special national rules that apply 
within a particular jurisdiction. 
 
Explanatory notes: 
 
Once a rules-based system has been adopted, modifications may occasionally 
be required. For example, where through post-market experience, a level of 
risk for a type of medical device, classified using the criteria found in this 
guidance document is no longer appropriate, consideration should be given to 
re-classification of the device type by a change to the rules. 
Similarly, the historical knowledge of a device may necessitate a different class 
than the one assigned by the initial classification. Unlike the principle of 
reclassification after post-market experience with a device, this principle of 
 
 
15 
 
historical knowledge should be applied immediately when the initial 
classification yields an inappropriate result. 
Where special national rules are applied, resulting in a device class other than 
that suggested by the present rules, then a different conformity assessment 
procedure may be indicated. This may have an effect on the acceptability of 
such devices for free movement in countries where these present rules have 
been adopted unless other, or additional, conformity assessment procedures 
are carried out. 
2.1.2 Level of Regulatory Requirements 
The level of regulatory requirements increases as the level of the device risk 
class increases.  These regulatory controls may include, for example:  
i. 
Operation of a quality system (recommended for all devices); 
ii. 
Submission of technical data; 
iii. Product testing using in-house or independent resources; 
iv. Documentation of clinical evidence to support the manufacturer’s 
claims; 
v. 
The need for and frequency of independent external audit of the 
manufacturer’s quality system; and 
vi. Independent external review of the manufacturer’s technical data 
2.2 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF MEDICAL DEVICES 
This document aims to provide guidance on the preparation of a product 
registration application for general medical devices using the Common 
Submission Dossier Template (CSDT). In particular, this document serves to 
clarify the information to be submitted in each section of the CSDT and the 
format that this information is to be submitted in. 
 
The CSDT document contains elements of the International Medical Devices 
Regulators Forum (IMDRF) guidance document titled “Summary Technical 
Documentation for Demonstrating Conformity to the Essential Principles of 
Safety and Performance of Medical Devices (STED)”. 
 
 
 
16 
 
Product registration applications for medical devices submitted to PPB must 
be prepared in the format set out in the CSDT document 
 
All medical devices including in vitro diagnostic medical devices must be 
registered with PPB prior to placing them on the Kenya market unless 
exempted by the Regulations. 
2.2.1 The Common Submission Technical Dossier (CSTD) format of 
submitting an application for Medical Devices 
The Common Submission Dossier Template (CSDT) will have the following 
components to be provided by the applicant depending on the class of the 
Medical device applied for, along with the list of configurations of medical 
devices to be registered; 
I. 
Administrative information 
Administrative information includes details of the Applicant, the details of the 
Local Representative Person, Physical Address for the Local Representative 
Person and Details of the Registered Business of the Local Representative 
Person and contact details domiciled in Kenya.  
II. 
 Manufacturer name and address 
The application should identify the name and location of the legal 
manufacturer (Legal Manufacturer) who is placing the devices on the 
market. This should be consistent across the device labels and Declarations 
of Conformity. 
Whereas a company is contracted to Manufacturer a Medical Device for 
another; Details of the Contracting company must also be provided. 
a. Manufacturer Site Name 
b. Site Address 
c. Physical Address 
d. Town 
e. Postal Code 
f. Street 
 
 
17 
 
g. Country 
h. Contact Person 
i. Contact Person Cell No. 
j. Email address of the contact Person 
k. Local Responsible Persons address 
 
Table 2: Types of marketing clearances or approvals from each 
country/region 
No. Country/Region 
Approval Type 
1.  
Australia  
Australia Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) 
license 
2.  
Canada 
Health Canada License 
3.  
European Union 
(EU) 
For General Medical Devices  
-Annex II Section 3 or Annex V of MDD (for Class IIA)   
-Annex II Section 3 or Annex III coupled with Annex V 
of MDD (for Class IIB)  
 -Annex II Section 3 and 4 of MDD (for Class C)  
 -Annex II Section 3 and 4 of AIMDD (for active 
implantable medical devices) 
4.  
Japan 
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) 
License 
5.  
United States of 
America (USA) 
US FDA 510(K) clearance letter [510(K) exempted 
products do not qualify for abridged evaluation route.]; 
or • US FDA PMA approval letter 
6.  
Ireland 
Irish Health Products Regulatory Authority  
7.  
Saudi Arabia 
Saudi Arabia Food and Drugs Authority 
8.  
Switzerland 
Swiss Medic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III. 
Local Authorized Representative and Subcontractors 
The name and location of the Representative in Kenya should be identified. 
Details of the local Authorized Representatives, its registered Business 
including location should be provided.  
 
 
18 
 
The Pharmacy and Poisons Board will register all the Local Authorized 
Representative for Medical Devices in Kenya. 
Only one Local Authorized Representative should be identified, and this 
should be consistent across the device labels, and Declarations of 
Conformity. 
This requirement is mandatory before registration approvals are granted. 
    III.a The roles of a Local Authorized Representative include; 
a. Acting as primary contact point with the competent authority; 
b. Keeping technical file documentation ready and available for the 
Competent Authority; 
c. Protecting documentation confidentiality because they are authorized 
to show them to the Competent Authorities only; 
d. Notification of Adverse Event and Incident Reporting to the Competent 
Authorities (Sign a declaration to provide regular vigilant reports to 
PPB); 
e. Assurance of supply chain regulatory compliance and accountability of 
medical devices; 
f. Product Safety Vigilance reporting; 
g. Field 
Safety 
Corrective 
Action 
implementation, 
management, 
coordination and reporting; 
h. Assistance with technical file documentation; 
i. Annual review of your technical file; 
j. Notification of changes and amendments to the Medical Device 
regulations that affect the device(s). 
          III.b Responsibilities of the Local Authorized Representative  
a. Any manufacturer based outside of Kenya must designate a local 
authorized Representative (LAR). The appointed LAR must provide 
written evidence that they are acting with the consent of a manufacturer 
located outside Kenya (Annex 1: Letter of Authorization Template) 
b. The responsibility of the LAR is, to assure regulatory compliance and 
serve as the central communication pathway with the PPB. 
c. The Local Authorized Representative Must obtain a letter from the 
Manufacturer appointing them as the Exclusive LAR, With the 
exclusive rights for distribution, sale, importation and registration of 
the medical device.  
 
 
19 
 
d. A Manufacturer / MAH/Innovator cannot appoint more than One LAR 
for the {Same product line or product portfolio} to be sold in Kenya.  
e. An applicant may have more than One LAR for all their product 
portfolios’  
f. Whereas there exists more than One LAR, The LAR shall control a 
product portfolio or product line in the Kenyan jurisdiction and 
Kenyan Market. 
g. Local Technical Representatives will be required to apply for a license to 
trade in the business of Medical Devices including IVDs. 
 
a) 
Device identification 
A complete list of product codes should be provided. GMDN Code and Device 
subcategory/ Generic Device Group should be identified. 
b) 
Device classification 
Please indicate the device classification and rationale. The rationale should 
address each point of the selected classification rule. 
If the device contains multiple components that on their own might be classed 
differently, please note: 
i. 
If several rules apply to the same device, based on the performance 
specified for the device by the manufacturer, the strictest rules 
resulting in the higher classification shall apply. 
ii. 
If multiple classification rules apply, all should be identified. 
GMDN/Unique Identification Number (UIN) 
c) Related previous submissions 
Details of any other submissions relevant to the application, such previous 
submissions and all outcomes from such reviews. 
d) Accessories 
The following information should be provided for any accessories (including 
Class A) associated with the device: 
i. 
Brief description of the accessory/ accessories and how they are 
used with the device(s) 
ii. 
Classification of the accessories and rationale for classification 
iii. Technical Documentation references  
 
 
20 
 
iv. Please 
note 
the 
Technical 
Documentation 
of 
the 
main 
machine/equipment should demonstrate compatibility of the 
devices with any applicable accessories. 
e)  Device description 
The device description should enable understanding of the design, packaging, 
sterilization, or other characteristics of the device. 
Sufficient information should be provided to distinguish different variants of 
the device, and the intended purpose of different design features. For example, 
if one variant of a device has a coating and another does not, what is the 
intended purpose of that coating, and why are both variants considered to 
meet the requirements for safety and performance? 
Pictures and schematics should be provided wherever possible to enable an 
understanding of the device design features and intended purpose. 
f) Intended use 
The intended use should provide sufficient detail to explain the disease 
conditions the device is intended to treat or monitor, the basic principles of 
operation (ie intended users and environment), the intended patient 
population and the indications and contraindications of the device. 
• indications and contraindications should be supported by objective 
evidence (eg, evidence provided in the risk assessment and clinical 
evaluation reports). 
• The intended use must include use of the device as a “medical device” 
as defined by Article 1 of the respective Directives unless this is 
otherwise justified. 
• Please ensure the intended use been described consistently throughout 
the file (eg. in the IFU, risk management documentation, clinical 
evaluation report, and design requirements). 
• If the application includes a change to the intended use, all sections of 
the file should be reviewed for potential impact. 
• For clarity it is suggested that this should be separate from the device 
description. 
g) Market history 
 
 
21 
 
All submissions should be accompanied by a market history to enable an 
understanding of the context of device development. 
• If the device is new and has never been marketed by the manufacturer 
anywhere in the world, please state this explicitly. 
• For existing devices: 
i. 
Ensure that a market history is provided indicating the nature 
and timing of any changes and that any associated documents 
(i.e. 
risk 
analyses, 
labelling, 
clinical 
evaluation 
reports, 
verification/ validation data, etc.) account for these changes. 
h) Sales, complaints and vigilance 
Please provide sales, complaints and vigilance data for the last 5 years 
for your device, if available. 
• Sales and complaints data should include sales outside the country of 
Origin/ Manufacturer. A breakdown should be provided to enable 
evaluation of sales and complaints by region. 
• Complaints data should be evaluated rather than just listed. For 
example, why is the complaints rate considered acceptable? Have any 
trends been noted, or corrective actions taken? What is the status of 
these actions? 
• Full details of vigilance issues should be provided, including the 
status of any Field Safety Corrective Actions or Notices.  
i) Draft Declaration of Conformity 
Ideally, the Declaration of Conformity should include: 
• Manufacturer’s name and address. 
• EU Representative’s name and address (if applicable). 
• Compliance Statement with relevant Directive, indicating that the 
manufacturer is exclusively responsible for the Declaration of 
Conformity route (ISO 13485 certification) 
• Product name(s), or other unambiguous reference of declaration 
scope (may be supplemented with an appendix with product codes 
and descriptions if appropriate). 
• Signature line indicating appropriate responsible person and date.  
 
 
22 
 
 
j) Manufacturing process and subcontractors 
• A detailed overview of the manufacturing processes should be 
provided. This should clearly identify any special or proprietary 
processes, and any subcontracted processes. 
• The name and location of key manufacturing subcontractors should 
be provided. 
• If new key subcontractors are used, provide copies of their ISO 13485 
certificates. 
• Validation documents for processes that can affect final product 
quality should be provided. 
 
k) General labeling provisions 
Name and Place of Business  
• The label of a device shall contain the name and place of business 
of manufacturer, packer, or distributor including the Plot No, street 
address, city and county.  
• If the firm's street address is in the local telephone directory, the 
street address can be omitted.  
• If the firm listed on the label is not the manufacturer, the firm 
information must be qualified by an appropriate statement such as, 
"Manufactured for..." or  
"Distributed by" Intended Use 
• If a packer, distributor, or seller intends a device for uses other than 
those intended by the person from whom he received the device, 
these parties must furnish adequate labeling in accordance with the 
new intended use.  
• If a manufacturer knows or has information indicating that his 
device is to be used for conditions or purposes other than which it 
was intended, he is required to provide adequate labeling in 
accordance with such other uses. (An example of this might be a 
manufacturer of dental X-ray equipment who is routinely selling his 
product to podiatrists.)  
 
 
23 
 
 
•  Medical devices and invitro diagnostics labeling Label 
requirements for the immediate container   
The label information must appear on the outside container or wrapper, 
or be easily legible through the outside container or wrapper.  
If the presence of any label information will interfere with the test, the 
information may appear on the outside wrapper or container instead of 
the label.  
If the immediate containers are too small, or otherwise unable to bear 
labels with sufficient space, then the required labeling as listed below 
annotated with an asterisk (*) may appear on the outer container 
labeling only.  
The label for IVD's must state the following information, except in cases 
where it is not applicable:  
• 
Information identifying the device, or the kind of device; 
• 
Information explaining how to use the device safely; and 
• 
The established and proprietary names of the product;  
• 
The intended use or uses, e.g., diabetes screening, etc.;  
• 
A statement of warnings or precautions for users (hazardous 
substances) and any other warnings appropriate to user hazards, 
and a statement "For In Vitro Diagnostic Use;"  
• 
Name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or 
distributor/Authorized representative;  
• 
Lot or control number traceable to the production history  
-  Multiple unit products must have traceability of the individual 
units;  
-  Instrument lot numbers must allow for traceability of 
subassemblies; and  
- A multiple unit product that requires use of its components as 
a system should have the same lot number, or other suitable 
form, identification, on all units.  
• 
Other information about the device that the manufacturer 
considers would be useful for patients. 
 
 
24 
 
For Reagents 
• 
Established (common or usual) name;  
• 
Quantity, proportion, or concentration of all active ingredients: 
e.g mg., weight per unit volume, mg./dl etc., and for reagents 
derived from biological materials the source and measure of its 
activity, e.g., bovine, I.U., etc.;  
• 
Storage 
instructions, 
i.e., 
temperature, 
humidity, 
etc.; 
Instructions for manipulation of products requiring mixing or 
reconstitution;  
• 
Means to assure that the product meets appropriate standards of 
purity, quality, etc., at the time of use, including one or more of 
the following:  
a) expiration date (date beyond which the product is not to be 
used);  
b) statement of any visual indication of alteration;  
c) instructions for a simple check to assure product 
usefulness;  
l) User information 
• Documents may include labels, instructions for use (IFU), patient 
implant cards, surgical manuals, brochures, marketing literature, 
etc. 
• Legible versions of all levels of labels should be provided (e.g. 
secondary pack, primary pack) and should be representative of the 
finished form, showing all included symbols. 
• It is sufficient to show information concerning labelling in English 
only, but items to be translated and the plan for translation should 
be indicated. 
• If possible, provide drawings with the packaging configuration 
(showing placement of all labels) and label specifications. 
• The position of labels on the finished product should be clear. If any 
of the packaging is printed with information for the user (including 
pictures/ schematics of the device) this should also be provided. It 
should be clear how the labelling documents are controlled. 
 
 
25 
 
• Supporting evidence should be provided for any claims made in the 
labelling or marketing literature. 
• Please ensure that any specific requirements of relevant harmonized 
standards are addressed in the labels and information for use. 
 
m) Design verification and validation 
Product design specifications should be adequately documented, outlining the 
key functional characteristics and technical performance specifications for 
each device, along with verification/ validation tests to substantiate that they 
have been achieved. 
Overall, manufacturers should demonstrate that design requirements have 
been identified in accordance with the intended use, safety and performance 
requirements, risk assessments, and relevant harmonized and other key 
standards. 
To this end, the source of design requirements should be indicated. Although 
compliance to harmonized and other key standards is expected, please be 
aware that testing beyond that required by the standards may be necessary 
to demonstrate compliance of your device to the relevant Essential 
Requirements. Design requirements should be mapped to the intended use, 
performance and risks identified for the device. 
A design verification/ validation strategy document and/ or summary of the 
outcomes should be provided. Verification/ validation results should be 
provided for each design requirement. If compliance has been demonstrated 
without testing, an appropriate rationale should be provided. 
Test reports should document objectives, acceptance criteria, materials & 
methods, results, protocol deviations, and conclusions. 
a. If test results are considered representative for a group of devices (i.e. 
worst-case devices or comparative devices), then a justification for 
leveraging protocol(s) and report(s) should be provided. 
b. Similarly, if testing has been undertaken on prototypes or devices that 
otherwise do not represent the finished goods, a justification for the 
adequacy of this testing should be provided. 
 
 
26 
 
c. If multiple design verification / validation studies were conducted please 
provide a flow chart or table that shows how the studies were conducted 
and highlight which study ultimately demonstrates that the design 
meets the product performance specifications. 
d. For line extensions or devices based on “existing” devices, it may be 
possible to leverage data from testing undertaken on the existing 
devices. In this case, a rationale for the use of existing data must be 
provided, including: 
e. Evidence of equivalence to the comparative devices – a table showing 
the similarities and differences greatly speeds the review process. Key 
things to consider include (but may not be limited to): 
i. 
materials of construction 
ii. 
indications for use 
iii. methods of manufacturing 
iv. key design features 
An evaluation of the impact of any differences on clinical safety, performance, 
and testing undertaken. The evaluation should support the conclusion that 
the new devices do not represent a worst case in terms of testing as compared 
to the devices tested. 
n) Risk management 
A thorough design, clinical and process Risk Management assessment should 
be conducted for the entire life-cycle of the device (from initial design concept 
up to and including device disposal). This should be updated (as appropriate) 
with data from PMS. 
a. The risk management documentation should provide a template for 
preparedness, indicating whether controls (i.e. process validations, 
biocompatibility, 
sterilization, 
clinical, 
shelf-life 
or 
other 
key 
verification / validation tests) have reduced all risks as low as possible 
(vs. as low as reasonably practicable) to acceptable levels in light of 
state-of-the-art for the product(s) under review. 
 
 
27 
 
b. The assessment must demonstrate that the benefits outweigh all the 
residual risks when the device is used as intended. 
c. The analysis must demonstrate that appropriate controls (design out 
then protective measures) have been applied to all risks. 
d. Information for use may reduce occurrence of some risks, but it cannot 
reduce the occurrence of residual risks. Please ensure appropriate use 
and quantification of risk control measures in the risk assessment. 
e. A copy of Risk Management Procedure(s) that include the definition of 
any rating systems used for risk analysis and risk acceptability should 
be provided. 
For line extensions and devices based upon existing devices, the manufacturer 
may conclude that pre-existing risk management documentation is 
applicable. However, there are always risks associated with even small 
changes, and a summary to demonstrate that these risks have been 
considered (and have been adequately mitigated) should be provided. 
 
o) Clinical evaluation 
Clinical evaluations are required for all medical devices.  
a. It is useful to provide a copy of the procedure for conducting Clinical 
Evaluation. 
b. If a pre-market clinical investigation has been conducted, please 
ensure: 
i. 
appropriate documentation (CIP, letter of “no objection” from the 
Competent Authority, evidence of Ethics approval, final report, 
etc.) is provided; 
ii. 
the final clinical trial protocol agrees with that submitted to the 
Competent Authority, and evidence that any deviations have 
been agreed with the CA has been provided; 
iii. the final report demonstrates that requirements for all safety 
and performance endpoints have been met; 
iv. there are no open clinical investigations relevant to your devices 
with endpoints related to safety or performance claims. 
 
 
28 
 
c. Representative clinical data must be provided for all indications and 
variants. Justifications for why one group of data is representative of 
another must be clearly substantiated. 
d. If no clinical investigation data is available for the subject device and 
the Clinical Evaluation relies on a justification of equivalence of 
comparative devices, the justification must identify and discuss the 
potential clinical impact of all differences between the subject and 
comparable devices relative to intended use, technical, or biological 
factors. 
e. A justification should be provided (with appropriate evidence) to 
substantiate the qualifications of individual(s) conducting/ approving 
the clinical evaluation. 
f. Some indications or specific clinical benefit claims may require the 
Notified Body to consult with an external expert (a surgeon or similar). 
Contracting a confidential source that is mutually agreed with the 
Manufacturer may be time consuming. 
p) PMS and PMCF 
A Post-Marketing Surveillance Plan (PMS Plan)/risk management plan 
commensurate with the product risk, lifetime, and available clinical data 
should be provided for each device/ device family. 
a. Ensure that the PMS plan/Risk Management Plan adequately 
justifies the monitoring of the safety and intended performance of the 
device. 
b. If Post-Market Clinical Follow-up (PMCF) is not part of the PMS Plan, 
please ensure that adequate justification is provided, based on the 
risk and clinical data available for the device. 
c. A copy of the Post Market Surveillance procedure should also be 
provided. Please note that the procedure is not the same as the Plan 
– the former refers to the manufacturer’s quality system 
a.  requirements and is generic to all devices marketed by a 
manufacturer, whereas the latter is specific to the subject device, and 
can only be generated in light of data from the clinical evaluation and 
risk evaluation for that device. 
 
 
29 
 
q) Biological safety 
Biological safety assessments should be undertaken in accordance with ISO 
10993-1. See Clause 7 of this standard for guidance with respect to 
appropriate 
report 
content. 
Link 
to 
ISO 
10993-1 
https://www.iso.org/standard/44908.html 
Biocompatibility assessments should include evidence of compliance for the 
finished device (including consideration of all materials and all manufacturing 
steps). It is not sufficient to simply state that devices have been manufactured. 
r) Sterilization validation 
Sterilization validation is reviewed separately by laboratories pre-qualified by 
PPB; 
i. Appropriate rationales are required if sterilization validation 
is by adoption into an existing family or sterilization validation. 
ii. Devices for End-User-Sterilization also require review of 
cleaning and sterilization validation/ adoption with respect to 
parameters recommended in the IFU. 
iii. Documents should describe: 
• use of “State of the art” process validation methods; 
• the bio-burden controls and monitoring; 
• the product qualification (Dose verification, BI suitability 
testing, SAL calculations); 
• the process qualification (Performance qualification, Dose 
Map, BI Inactivation’s). 
Additional guidance relating to specific document types is provided below: 
s) Shelf-Life Validation should include: 
a. Protocol (with acceptance criteria for each test performed) and 
appropriate test references; 
b. A clear statement of the intended shelf life; 
c. A clear statement defining the sterilization status of the test 
samples (1X, 2X sterilized); 
d. A summary of the accelerated aging parameters (temperature and 
humidity) and how the aging times were calculated; 
 
 
30 
 
e. A statement covering Real Time Aging plans; 
f. A clear delineation of statistically significant sample quantities; 
g. Actual physical/microbiological test data reports supporting the 
expiration date, or post aging, claim (peel testing, burst testing, dye 
testing, etc.); 
h. A summary of the ship testing/ transit simulation testing conducted 
and applicable test reports. 
t) Sterilization Validation – Radiation should include: 
a. Protocol; 
b. Dosimetry mapping data (typically from the sterilization contractor); 
c. Validation of bio-burden testing method & test report; 
d. Bio-burden determination & test reports; 
e. Calculation or determination of verification dose and full dose; 
f. Validation of product sterility testing method & test report; 
g. Sterility testing of verification dose samples & test report. 
 
u) Software 
Appropriate documentation is required if the medical devices are either stand-
alone software or rely upon software. 
If medical device is stand-alone software, guidance for the qualification and 
classification of the software should be provided with a report of the same. 
There should be a rationale for why the software is a medical device and for 
its classification. If applicable, the software should be broken down into 
modules, some that have a medical purpose and some that do not. The 
modules with a medical purpose must comply with the requirements of the 
Medical Device requirements and must carry own jurisdiction marking. The 
non-medical device modules are not subject to the requirements for medical 
devices. 
Ensure all relevant harmonized and non-harmonised software standards have 
been considered. Ensure the software systems/ modules/ items have been 
assigned safety classifications based on standards. 
Include documentation on the medical device software life-cycle processes 
implemented (e.g., software design/ development, maintenance/ change 
 
 
31 
 
management, risk management, configuration management, problem 
resolution, verification, and validation processes). 
Include software development process documentation (e.g., software 
development plan, software requirements specification, software architecture, 
software detailed design, software unit testing procedures/ reports, software 
integration testing procedures/reports, and software system testing) and 
maintenance process documentation (e.g. software maintenance plan). Note: 
Some documentation may or may not be required per the standards based on 
software system/ module/ item risk classification. 
Include software risk assessment documentation (e.g. software hazard 
analysis, software failure mode and effects analysis, fault tree analysis, 
traceability). Note: Some documentation may or may not be required per the 
standards based on software system/ module/ item risk classification. 
Instructions for use that detail the validated sterilization and cleaning 
parameters. Please be aware that reference to “standard hospital practice” is 
insufficient; 
v) Packaging 
Packaging testing should address requirements for both transit endurance 
and shelf-life stability, and be undertaken in accordance with relevant 
standards. 
A complete packaging Bill of Material (BoM) and diagrams should be provided 
to illustrate how each device is packaged. 
If all packaging/device combinations have not been tested, a rationale based 
on worst case (ie heaviest and lightest devices, sharp or pointy edges, etc) 
should be provided. 
Any change to packaging is considered a significant change. For Class C 
devices, these must be reported to the PPB for review and certificate re-issue. 
w) Shelf life and stability testing 
Shelf life is normally considered to be the time the device can be kept in the 
packaging prior to use. This is not the same as “Lifetime”. 
 
 
32 
 
Shelf-life testing is not restricted to the packaging. The device itself should be 
subject to shelf-life testing, or a rationale provided to demonstrate why its 
characteristics are not expected to degrade over the claimed shelf life. 
If shelf-life testing is based on accelerated age testing, this should be 
accompanied by a plan for real time testing. Real time testing should be 
underway by the time documentation is submitted for review. 
x) Product lifetime 
The lifetime of the device should be defined, and considered relative to other 
parts of the dossier (e.g. risk management, clinical evaluation, PMS). Product 
lifetime is normally considered as the time from manufacture until the device 
ceases to fulfill its intended use. This is not the same as “Shelf Life”. 
Medicinal 
substances/Human 
blood 
derivative 
& 
recombinant 
protein/peptides. The submission should clearly indicate whether or not the 
device contains any medicinal substances and /or human blood derivatives 
and/ or recombinant peptides/proteins. Full justification on the primary 
mode of action of the device and evidence that the above components are 
ancillary should be provided. 
Devices which incorporate, as an integral part, an ancillary medicinal 
substance or an ancillary human blood derivative or ancillary recombinant 
protein/ peptide are subject to requirements of additional Regulations. 
y) Animal derived substances 
The submission should clearly indicate whether or not the device utilizes, or 
is used in conjunction with, any materials of animal origin. 
Manufacturing subcontractors should be consulted if appropriate to establish 
if any such substances are used during manufacture, even if they do not 
feature in the final device (e.g. lubricants or mould release agents which may 
use animal derived substances). If in doubt, speak with your Scheme Manager 
before submitting a dossier. 
Evidence demonstrating compliance with the relevant clauses of EN ISO 
22442 (parts 1-3) should be provided. 
Link: https://www.iso.org/standard/68553.html 
Devices which incorporate materials from TSE-susceptible species will be 
subject to conformity assessment. 
 
 
33 
 
z) Grouping Requirements for Product Registration 
Each submitted application shall contain only one of the following: 
➢ 
a SINGLE medical device; 
➢ 
one medical device FAMILY; 
➢ 
one medical device SYSTEM; 
➢ 
one medical device GROUP; 
➢ 
one dental grouping term (DGT). 
Table 3: Summary of Application Process To Be Followed For All Medical 
Devices 
Step 1 
Step 2 
Step 3 
Step 4 
Submission 
Of 
Application 
To 
The 
Online 
Portal  
Verification 
Of 
Submitted 
Application  
Reviewing of the 
application  
Regulatory outcome 
and or issuance of 
registration 
certificate 
2.3 REGISTRATION OF CLASS A MEDICAL DEVICES 
2.3.1 Submission Requirements 
Upon submission via the Online Portal of the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, 
prims.pharmacyboardkenya.org the product application fee will be charged 
immediately. Review of the application by PPB is based on the data set 
submitted by the applicant. An input request will be issued to the applicant if 
clarification or additional information is required. A regulatory decision is 
made based on the outcome of PPB’s review of the submitted application. Only 
applications which satisfy the registration requirements will be registered and 
listed. 
The stop-clock starts whenever PPB issues an input request and ends when 
PPB receives a complete and satisfactory response from the applicant. 
Table 4: Summary of Submission Requirements for listing of Class A 
No.  
Document Required 
1. 
Letter of Authorization 
2. 
Proposed Device Labelling (Actual Artworks, Packaging material in 
contact with the product and or the Secondary packaging to be provided) 
3. 
Pre-Verification certificate for a Notified Body in liaison with KEBS. 
Certificate of Conformity also acceptable in place of PVOC  
 
 
34 
 
4. 
IFU, patient information leaflet and promotional material (including 
brochures and catalogues) 
5. 
Certificate of analysis (COA) for of all materials of animal, human, 
microbial and/or recombinant origin used and manufacturing process 
(Where applicable) 
6. 
For Personal protective equipment, i.e Face Masks, Surgical face masks, 
Gloves; a certificate of analysis for conformity through a PPB recognized 
Laboratory must be obtained. 
7. 
Information on sterilization method(s) and validation standard(s) used 
(where applicable) 
8. 
Regulatory approval from the country of origin of the product. 
9. 
Proof of Quality Management 
System (QMS) – E.g. ISO 13485 certificate, conformity to US FDA Quality 
System Regulations (Certificate of free sale), Japan MHLW Ordinance 
169 or attestation stating adequate QMS, CE Certificate from the EU/UK 
IRELAND 
2.4 REGISTRATION OF CLASS B MEDICAL DEVICES 
2.4.1 Evaluation Routes 
There are four evaluation routes for Class B medical devices: 
a) Full Evaluation Route 
b) Abridged Evaluation Route 
c) Expedited Class B Registration (EBR) Evaluation Route 
d) Immediate Class B Registration (IBR) Evaluation Route 
Abridged, expedited and immediate evaluation routes are set out 
according to a confidence-based approach, leveraging on the approvals by 
listed medical device reference regulatory agencies (8) and/or prior safe 
marketing history of the Class B devices. The types of approvals that qualify 
for the abridged, expedited and immediate evaluation routes are: 
i. 
Australia Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) Device Registration 
License 
ii. 
Health Canada (HC) Device Registration License 
iii. Japan Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) 
• Pre-Market Certification from a Japanese Registered Certification 
Body 
• -Pre-Market Approval from MHLW 
iv. US Food and Drug Administration (US FDA) 
 
 
35 
 
a. 510K clearance 
b. Premarket Approval (PMA) 
v. 
European Union Notified Bodies (EU NB) via EC certificates issued 
according to 
a) Directive 93/42/EEC Annex II section 3 or Annex V for Class IIA 
devices 
b) Directive 98/79/EC Annex IV or Annex V with Annex VII for List 
B and self-testing IVDs 
vi. Irish Health Products Regulatory Authority  
vii. Swiss Medic 
viii. Saudi Arabia Food and Drugs Authority 
2.4.1.1 Full Evaluation Route 
a) Eligibility Criteria 
A medical device that has not obtained any prior approval from any 
Reference Regulatory Agencies at the point of application will be subject 
to the full evaluation route. 
b) Submission Requirements 
• Letter of Authorization  
•  List of configurations of medical devices to be registered 
• Common Submission Dossier Template (CSDT) 
• Executive Summary 
• Essential Principles Checklist and Declaration of Conformity  
• Device Description 
• Detailed 
Information 
of 
Design 
Verification 
and 
Validation 
Documents 
• Full reports of Preclinical Studies including the detailed sterilization 
validation, if applicable 
 
 
36 
 
• Clinical Evidence, including publications and full reports of the 
studies referenced in the clinical evaluation report Proposed Device 
Labelling 
• Risk Analysis 
• Manufacturer Information 
• Name and address of the manufacturing site(s) 
• Proof of Quality Management System – e.g. ISO13485 Certificate, 
Conformity to US FDA Quality System Regulations or Japan MHLW 
Ordinance 169 
• Manufacturing Process – Flow Chart 
For medical device with labelled use beyond the inherent performance of 
the device, additional clinical data may be requested to substantiate the 
proposed label use. 
Table 5: Summary of Submission Requirements (Class B/C/D) 
No
.  
Document Required 
1. 
 
Letter of Authorization 
2. 
 
List of configurations of medical devices to be registered to 
be provided 
3. 
 
Executive Summary 
4. 
 
Essential 
Principles 
Checklist 
and 
Declaration 
of 
Conformity 
5. 
 
Device Description 
6. 
 
Detailed Information of Design Verification and Validation 
Documents 
7. 
 
Full reports of Preclinical Studies including the detailed 
sterilization validation, if applicable 
8. 
 
Risk Analysis 
9. 
 
Manufacturer 
Information 
(Including 
details 
of 
Manufacturing Site(s)) 
 
 
37 
 
10.  
Manufacturing Flow Process 
11.  
Clinical Evidence, including publications and full reports of 
the studies referenced in the clinical evaluation report 
Proposed Device Labelling 
12.  
Proof of Quality Management 
System (QMS) – E.g. ISO 13485 certificate, conformity to 
US FDA Quality System Regulations (Certificate of free 
sale), Japan MHLW Ordinance 169 or attestation stating 
adequate QMS, CE Certificate from the EU/UK IRELAND 
 
2.4.1.2 Abridged Evaluation Route 
a) Eligibility Criteria 
A medical device that has obtained at least two reference regulatory 
agency approval for a labelled use identical to that intended for 
marketing in Kenya at the time of submission will qualify for the 
abridged evaluation route. 
2.4.1.3 Expedited Class B Registration (EBR) Evaluation Route 
a) Eligibility Criteria 
A Class B medical device may qualify for registration via the EBR route 
if it complies with the following conditions; 
• obtained approval from at least Two of PPB’s independent 
reference regulatory agencies for a labelled use identical to that 
intended for marketing in Kenya; 
• marketed for at least three years in the above independent 
reference regulatory agency’s jurisdiction; 
• no safety issues globally associated with the use of the medical 
device(s) when used as intended by the Product Owner, in the last 
three years, defined as 
a) no reported deaths; 
b) no reported serious deterioration in the state of health3 of 
any person; and 
c) no open field safety corrective actions (including recalls) at 
the point of submission.  
OR 
Obtained approvals from at least Three of PPB’s independent reference 
regulatory agencies for a labelled use identical to that intended for 
marketing in Kenya. 
b) Submission Requirements 
 
 
38 
 
a. Letter of Authorization  
b. List of configurations of medical devices to be registered 
c. Proof of approval from independent reference regulatory agencies – 
d. Proof of marketing history in the same independent reference 
regulatory agency’s jurisdictions i.e. Invoice with date, proof of sale 
or a declaration on marketing history 
e. Declaration of no safety issues globally  
f. Common Submission Dossier Template (CSDT) dossier approvals 
from the independent reference regulatory agencies 
2.4.1.4 Immediate Class B Registration (IBR) Evaluation Route 
a) Eligibility Criteria 
A Class B medical device may qualify for registration via the IBR route 
if it complies with the following conditions: 
(i) approvals by at least three of PPB’s independent reference 
regulatory agencies for intended use identical to that submitting 
for registration in Kenya; 
(ii) marketed for at least four years in two of the independent 
reference regulatory agencies’ jurisdictions; no safety issues 
globally associated with the use of the medical device(s) when 
used as intended by the Product Owner, in the last three years, 
defined as 
• no reported deaths; 
• no reported serious deterioration in the state of health3 of 
any person; and 
• no open field safety corrective actions (including recalls) at 
the point of submission; and 
• no rejection/withdrawal of the medical device by/from any 
reference regulatory agency/that foreign jurisdiction(s) or 
Kenya due to quality, performance/efficacy or safety issues. 
(iii) For medical device with labelled use beyond the inherent 
performance of the device, additional clinical data may be 
requested post-registration to substantiate the proposed label 
use. 
PPB’s independent reference regulatory agencies are HC, MHLW, USFDA, 
TGA, EU-NB, SWISSMEDIC, HPRA. 
 
 
39 
 
b)  Submission Requirements 
Upon submission via PPB online Portal (portal.pharmacyboardkenya.org, the 
medical device will be registered immediately and will be listed on the PPB 
Online registry within an hour. An email notification regarding the successful 
registration of the device will be sent within 48 hours of submission in PPB 
online Portal. The total fees will also be charged immediately upon successful 
submission for this route. As devices are registered immediately upon 
successful submission, applicants are reminded to ensure the application 
fulfills ALL the eligibility criteria and that all the required information is 
entered correctly and accurately. 
PPB will verify the documents submitted in PPB online Portal after successful 
submission. Based on the intended use of the device by the Product Owner, 
additional registration conditions may be imposed post-registration. 
The IBR evaluation route facilitates immediate market access for the medical 
devices. Any IBR application which fails to fulfill the ALL the registration 
criteria specified under Section 5.1.4.1 for the IBR evaluation route or a non-
Class B medical device submitted via the IBR evaluation route would result in 
cancellation of the registration and the registration fee will NOT be refunded. 
2.5 REGISTRATION OF CLASS C AND D MEDICAL DEVICES MODULE -  
2.5.1 Evaluation Routes 
There are three evaluation routes for Class C and D and IVD medical devices: 
(i) Full Evaluation Route 
(ii) Abridged Evaluation Route 
(iii) Expedited Evaluation Route 
a. Expedited Class C Registration (ECR) 
b. Expedited Class D Registration (EDR) 
Approvals from EU and TGA will qualify as independent reference regulatory 
agency’s approval only if the devices have been reviewed and approved by the 
respective agencies and the devices are not registered based on the Mutual 
Recognition Agreement (MRA). 
 
 
40 
 
The abridged and expedited evaluation routes are set out according to a 
confidence-based approach, leveraging on the approvals by PPB’s medical 
device reference regulatory agencies and/or prior safe marketing history. The 
types of approvals that qualify for abridged and expedited Class C and D 
evaluation routes are listed below;  
1. Full Evaluation Routes 
a) Eligibility Criteria 
A medical device that has not obtained any prior approval from any of PPB’s 
reference regulatory agencies at the point of application will be subject to the 
full evaluation route. 
2. Abridged Evaluation Route 
a) Eligibility Criteria 
A medical device that has obtained at least three reference regulatory agency 
approval for a labelled use identical to that intended for marketing in Kenya 
at the time of submission will qualify for the abridged evaluation route. 
3. Expedited Class C Registration (ECR) Evaluation Route 
a) Eligibility Criteria 
A Class C medical device may qualify for registration via the following routes 
if it complies with the following conditions: 
I. 
ECR: 
a) obtained approval from at least three of PPB’s independent reference 
regulatory agencies for a labelled use identical to that intend for 
marketing in Kenya; [PPB’s medical device independent reference 
regulatory. 
b) marketed for at least five years in the above independent reference 
regulatory agency’s jurisdiction; and 
c) no safety issues globally associated with the use of the medical device(s) 
when used as intended by the Product Owner, in the last three years, 
defined as 
• no reported deaths; 
 
 
41 
 
• no reported serious deterioration in the state of health3 of any 
person; and 
• no open field safety corrective actions (including recalls) at the point 
of submission OR 
II. 
ECR: 
a) Obtained approvals from at least five of PPB’s independent 
reference regulatory agencies for a labelled use identical to that 
intended for marketing in Kenya. 
Approvals from EU and TGA will qualify as independent reference regulatory 
agency approvals only if the devices have been reviewed and approved by the 
respective agencies and not registered based on the Mutual Recognition 
Agreement (MRA). 
Or the medical device has been marketed in the jurisdiction of the reference 
regulatory agency for at least 5 years as stated in the proof of marketing 
history. For devices that are part of a test kit or a system, an invoice or 
declaration containing the kit name or system will be sufficient. 
The following Class C devices are excluded from submission via the ECR 
evaluation route: 
(i) 
Hip, knee and shoulder joint replacement non-bio-active implants (e.g. 
non-bioactive metal/polymer implants). 
These devices will have to be registered via Full or Abridged routes only 
Procedure for handling of applications 
Upon submission via PPB Online Portal, an application fee will be charged 
immediately. The application will be verified for eligibility for ECR and the 
dossier will be verified for completeness. Once confirmed, the application will 
be accepted for evaluation. The evaluation fees will be charged at this point. 
In the event that the application does not qualify for ECR, the application will 
be required to be re-routed to the abridged or full evaluation route and the 
respective evaluation fees shall apply. 
Evaluation of the technical data/application by PPB is based on the data set 
submitted by the applicant. An input request will be issued to the applicant if 
 
 
42 
 
clarification or additional information is required. A regulatory decision is 
made based on the outcome of PPB’s evaluation of the submitted dossier. Only 
applications which satisfy the registration requirements will be registered and 
listed on the PPB Online Registry. 
The stop-clock starts whenever PPB issues an input request and ends when 
PPB receives a complete and satisfactory response from the applicant. 
4. Expedited Class D Registration (EDR) Evaluation Route 
a) Eligibility Criteria 
A Class D medical device may qualify for registration via the EDR route 
if it complies with the following condition: 
(i) obtained approvals from at least two of PPB’s independent reference 
regulatory agencies for a labelled use identical to that intended for 
marketing in Kenya. 
The following Class D devices are excluded from being registered via EDR 
route: 
(i) 
Active implantable devices (e.g., pacemakers, neuro stimulators) 
(ii) 
Implantable devices in direct contact with the central circulatory 
system or central nervous system 
(iii) 
Hip, knee and shoulder joint replacement (e.g., bioactive 
implants) 
(iv) 
Devices incorporating a registrable drug in an ancillary role 
 
These devices will have to be registered via Full or Abridged evaluation routes 
only. 
2.6. MEDICAL DEVICES INCORPORATING MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
By the design and intent of the product owner, a medical device may be 
incorporated with a medicinal product in an ancillary role (chemical drug or 
biologic), to achieve its intended purpose. The regulatory controls applicable 
(i.e., medical device or medicinal product) to such products including both 
medical device and medicinal product components is determined based on 
their primary mode of action (PMOA). 
 
 
43 
 
“Primary mode of action (PMOA)” means the mode of action that makes the 
greatest contribution to the overall intended therapeutic purpose of the 
combined product. 
A product that does not achieves its PMOA in or on the human body by 
pharmacological, immunological or metabolic means will be regulated as a 
medical device under the Act. 
Examples of medical devices incorporating a medicinal product that are 
regulated as medical device include: 
• 
Drug eluting stents 
• 
Dermal filler incorporating analgesic 
• 
Antimicrobial silver dressings. 
Medical devices incorporating registrable medicinal products are classified as 
Class D medical devices. The product registration applications for such 
devices will be jointly evaluated by the Medical Device Unit together with the 
Unit of Biologicals and the medical products Human Medicines Unit of the 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board. Such devices would qualify for the abridged 
evaluation route if the product is approved as a medical device in at least one 
of PPB’s medical device reference regulatory agencies and the chemical or 
biological component has been evaluated and approved by at least one 
competent drug regulatory agency, as defined by the World Health 
Organisation (WHO). The product registration applications for such product 
should be submitted via the full evaluation route if they do not qualify for the 
abridged route. 
Where such medical devices incorporate medicinal products exempted from 
medicinal product registration, the risk classification would follow the medical 
device risk class. 
The applicant can enquire with PPB about the product classification for such 
products to determine the applicable regulatory controls. 
2.7 TURN-AROUND-TIME (TAT) FOR PRODUCT REGISTRATION 
PPB shall Endeavour to meet the target processing timelines for all submitted 
applications. Applicants should ensure that the dossiers are complete before 
submission. Incomplete submissions and untimely responses to queries will 
 
 
44 
 
result in unnecessary delays to the registration process and thus, will have a 
negative impact on the target processing timelines. 
The target turn-around-time (TAT) for product registration applications 
commences from the date of receipt of the application and does not include 
‘stop-clock time’ due to input requests for clarifications and additional 
information. 
In the event that the medical device is a subject of a Field Safety Corrective 
Action (FSCA), the application will be placed on stop-clock until resolution of 
the FSCA. 
N.B It remain the prerogative of the regulatory authority on time line for 
regulatory approval to be granted. The above is a guide to inform stakeholders. 
FAST TRACKINNG 
Classes B, C/D applications qualify for fast tracking processes. Reference is 
made to the Guideline for Fast Track Review of Application for Health 
Products (HPT/PER/GUD/041) 
2.8 PRODUCT REGISTRATION FEES 
The fees herewith listed are per product by an applicant seeking registration 
with the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. 
The application fee is payable at the time of submission in PPB Online Portal.  
Evaluation fees are payable upon acceptance of the application for 
evaluation. 
The application fees are non-refundable once the application has been 
successfully submitted via PPB Online Portal. The applicant should ensure 
that the product registration application is compiled according to the 
prevailing required format. 
The evaluation fees are non-refundable once the application is accepted for 
evaluation, regardless of the final decision by HSA. Withdrawal of the 
application after the application is accepted will result in forfeiture of the 
evaluation fees. Rejection of the application by PPB will also result in the 
forfeiture of the evaluation fees. 
The registration fees are payable per class per manufacturer per product as 
illustrated below. 
Table 6: Registration, retention and variations fees for Medical Devices 
 
 
45 
 
FEE STRUCTURE 
IMPORTED 
PRODUCTS 
LOCAL 
MANUFACTURED 
REGISTRATION 
OF 
MEDICAL DEVICES 
CLASS A USD 100 
USD 50 
CLASS B USD 200 
USD 50 
CLASS C & D USD 1000 CLASS C & D USD 100 
VARIATION 
OF 
REGISTERED 
MEDICAL DEVICE 
USD 200 
USD 50 
ANNUAL 
RETENTION 
OF MEDICAL DEVICES 
CLASS A & B: USD 50 
USD 50 
CLASS C & D: USD 300 USD 50 
 
2.9 Guidance on Change Notification of Medical Devices including IVDs   
Medical devices undergo changes as part of their product life cycle. This 
guidance document is intended to aid Applicants in determining whether a 
Change Notification has to be submitted for a registered medical device. 
Applicants are required to notify changes concerning registered medical 
devices to the Authority.  
This guidance document is also applicable to situations when a registered 
device undergoes any changes or proposed changes, including 
labelling changes, as a result of a reportable Adverse Event (AE) or an on-
going Field Safety Corrective Action (FSCA).  
When several simultaneous changes are being implemented on a 
registered   device or its accessories, this guidance document should be used 
to assess each change separately. If a Change Notification is required, the 
Registrant shall describe how the modified device differs from the previously 
registered device (or device type). 
Some changes that will NOT qualify for Change Notification and require 
the submission of a NEW Common Submission Technical Dossier (CSTD) 
Format of Submitting an application for Medical Devices include:  
● Change to the intended purpose of a registered medical device; 
 
 
46 
 
● Change to the risk classification of a registered medical device; 
● Guidance on Grouping of Medical Devices for Product Registration;  
● Change to the medicinal substance in a device that incorporates a 
medicinal product in an ancillary role; 
● An addition of medical devices with different device proprietary names 
into a single-family listing even when they satisfy the FAMILY grouping 
requirements  
The applicant is requested to complete “Changes notification to a 
Registered Medical Devices including IVDs’ reference annex 4 for the 
types of changes and required documents to be provided for a 
Change/variations Notification submission. 
● Copy of Pharmacy and Poisons Board Initial registration certificate of 
the device  
● Copy of Pharmacy and Poisons   Retention certificate of the device 
● Letter of no objection from the existing LTR 
a) Categories of changes  
Changes to registered medical devices that require the submission of a 
Change Notification are classified into four categories as summarized in 
Table 1: Table 1 - Categories of Change Notification for Class A, B, C and D 
Medical Devices namely; 
i. 
 Technical Changes for Class C and D medical devices affect the 
safety, quality or efficacy of these medical devices. These require PPB’s 
approval prior to implementation of the change(s) in Kenya.  
ii. 
Review Changes for Class A and B medical devices affect the 
safety, quality or efficacy of these medical devices. These require PPB 
approval prior to implementation of the change(s) in Kenya and are as 
follows:  
 
 
47 
 
• Change(s) to indications for use of the registered medical device 
(except reduction of indications for use not arising due to device 
safety, quality or efficacy concerns); 
• Addition of new model(s) (except Class A accessories) to a registered 
medical device listing;  
• Removal and/or revision of warnings, precautions and 
contraindications;  
• Modification of approved method of use, including change from 
“Professional use only” to “Home use”.  
a) Administrative Changes include changes to the administrative documents 
and information submitted at the point of registration of the medical 
device. These require PPB’s approval prior to implementation of the 
change(s) in Kenya.  
b) Notification Changes may be implemented immediately upon receipt of 
the acknowledgement email from PPB after submission via online portal, 
unless the change is in the context of, or is a consequence of a reportable 
Adverse Events (AEs) or Field Safety Corrective Actions (FSCAs).  
NOTE: ‘Notification’ changes which are incorrectly classified will be rejected 
upon review and further supply of the affected device will be prohibited. 
Subsequent supply will be subject to approval of the change in the correct 
change notification category. 
Table 7 - Categories of Change Notification for Class A, B, C and D 
Medical Devices  
Risk 
Classification  
Technical 
Changes  
Review 
Changes  
Administrative 
Changes  
Notificat
ions  
Class A  
 
√*  
√  
√  
Class B  
 
√*  
√  
√  
Class C  
√  
 
√  
√  
Class D  
√  
 
√  
√  
 
 
 
48 
 
2.10. AMENDMENT OF DEVICE LISTING/REGISTRATION 
In cases of any typographical errors incurred in the device listing information 
on the PPB Online Portal, the Registrant may submit a written request to PPB 
for the necessary amendments 
2.11. ANNUAL RETENTION  
It is a requirement for all medical devices and IVDs to annually be retained in 
the PPB Database to maintain the market authorization status in Kenya. This 
procedure should be done three months before the end of the year. 
An annual retention fee is payable in order to retain the registration of the 
medical device on the PPB Online Registry. 
The payment of the retention fee should be submitted via PPB Online Portal. 
Submission via the system will be available 60 days before the due date of the 
annual retention fee. It is the responsibility of the registrant to keep track of 
the annual retention due date. Failure to make the necessary payment may 
lead to suspension and cancellation of the registration of the medical device. 
The retention of a product is per calendar year and the annual registration 
retention fees are non-refundable. 
 
2.12 Certificate of registration 
a. Issuance 
i. Certificate of registration is issued upon providing 
satisfactory documentation in accordance to the 
dossier and satisfying regulatory process 
b. The certificate of registration is valid for 5 years. 
ii. In an emergency situation or in the public interest, 
PPB can at its discretion issue certificate of 
registration valid for 2 years. 
iii. A certificate of registration can be suspended, 
withdrawn, withheld or revoked is the conditions 
 
 
49 
 
stipulated 
in 
the 
guideline 
for 
suspension, 
withdrawal, 
withholding 
and 
revocation 
(HPT/PER/GUD/042) 
 
2.13. SUSPENSION AND CANCELLATION OF REGISTRATION 
Pursuant to section the Cap 244 Laws of Kenya, when a regulatory decision 
has been made on reasonable grounds to suspend or cancel a registered 
product, the Registrant will be given written notice. The Registrant will also be 
given an opportunity to be heard prior to the suspension or cancellation. 
Once the registration is suspended or cancelled, the Registrant and all dealers 
are required to immediately cease all activities related to the importation and 
supply of the affected medical devices including IVD Medical Devices. 
 
2.14. EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION OF MEDICAL DEVICES 
The requirements for registration of medical devices including IVDs may be 
exempted in the following circumstances; 
I. 
The purpose of demonstration for marketing 
II. 
The purpose of education 
III. 
The purpose of clinical research or performance evaluation of 
medical device 
IV. 
A Custom-Made Medical Device; or 
V. 
Exemption of Medical Device & IVDs from registration 
requirements 
An applicant who imports or manufactures the above medical device also 
exempted from the requirement of an establishment license. However, prior to 
importation and supplying a device potentially eligible for exemption, 
manufacturer or importer of the device must submit a notification to 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board, together with supporting documents 
  
Exemption 
Type 
Examples of exemptions 
 
 
50 
 
Demonstratio
ns  
1.      Medical Device for Demonstration for Marketing 
2.    Disposed of or Destroyed; or Exported out of Kenya’ of 
Unregistered Medical Device 
Education 
Medical Device for the Purpose of Education 
Clinical 
Iinvestigation
s 
1.    Import 
and/or 
Supply 
Medical 
Devices 
for 
Clinical 
Investigational Use 
2.     Import Medical Devices for Clinical Research Use 
3.     Serious Adverse Device Events (SADE) 
4.     Export /Disposal of Devices Upon Completion /Termination of 
Clinical Investigation /Drug Study 
5.     Investigational Device (IDE) Progress Report 
6.    Change on Clinical Trial for Medical Devices Use 
Custom made Unregistered Medical Device for Custom Made                                   
Special 
Access 
Unregistered Medical Device for Special Access                        
 
2.14.1 Payment and Review of the notification 
Upon receipt of notification, the authority will issue a payment advice to the 
applicant as per the PPB import and export control requirements. 
 
2.15 GUIDANCE ON THE PRINCIPLE OF RISK BASED CLASSIFICATION 
OF IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC (IVD) MEDICAL DEVICES 
2.15.1 Risk based classification of IVD medical devices  
The Classification of an IVD Medical Device is based on the following criteria: 
1. The intended use and indications for use as specified by the 
manufacturer (specific disorder, condition or risk factor for which the 
test is intended) 
2. The technical/scientific/medical expertise of the intended user (lay 
person or professional) 
 
 
51 
 
3. The importance of the information to the diagnosis (sole determinant or 
one of several), taking into consideration the natural history of the 
disease or disorder including presenting signs and symptoms which 
may guide a physician the impact of the result (true or false) to the 
individual and/or to public health 
 
Table 8: Risk classification of IVD’s and Examples. 
CLASS RISK LEVEL 
DEVICE EXAMPLES 
A 
Low Individual Risk and Low Public 
Health Risk 
Clinical Chemistry Analyser, prepared 
selective culture media 
B 
Moderate Individual Risk and/or 
Low Public Health Risk 
Vitamin B12, Pregnancy self-testing, 
Anti-Nuclear Antibody, Urine test strips 
C 
High 
Individual 
Risk 
and/or 
Moderate Public Health Risk 
Blood glucose self-testing, HLA typing, 
PSA screening, Rubella 
D 
High Individual Risk and High Public 
Health Risk 
HIV Blood donor screening, HIV Blood 
diagnostic 
 
2.15.2 In-country assessment for performance and evaluation for In-
vitro diagnostic and condoms 
a. It is a requirement for in-country assessment of In-vitro Diagnostics for 
medical Devices. This procedure will include submission of samples 
with defined samples sizes to the Quality control Laboratory department 
for Performance and Validation Testing.  
b. The Report from the Laboratory, forms part of the Assessment 
documents for consideration before issuance of a registration certificate 
or Emergency Use Authorization. 
c. An IVD that fails to meet the set criteria for the performance testing will 
not be approved for registration. 
d. Additionally, other medical devices which includes Male Latex Condoms 
must also under laboratory testing. 
2.15.3 Classification Rules 
Rule 1: IVD Medical Devices intended for the following purposes are classified 
as Class D: 
 
 
52 
 
1. Devices intended to be used to detect the presence of, or exposure to, a 
transmissible agent in blood, blood components, blood derivatives, cells, 
tissues or organs in order to assess their suitability for transfusion or 
transplantation, or 
2. Devices intended to be used to detect the presence of, or exposure to, a 
transmissible agent that causes a life-threatening often incurable 
disease with a high risk of propagation.  
 
Rationale: Devices in this Class are intended to be used to ensure the safety 
of blood and blood components for transfusion and/or cells, tissues 
and organs for transplantation.  In most cases, the result of the test 
is the major determinant as to whether the donation/product will be 
used.  Serious diseases are those that result in death or long-term 
disability, that are often incurable or require major therapeutic 
interventions and where an accurate diagnosis is vital to mitigate 
the public health impact of the condition. 
Examples: Tests to detect infection by HIV, HCV, HBV, HTLV.  Pyrogenicity 
tests (Endotoxin Activity Assay) marketed for detection of bacterial 
contamination of blood components.  This Rule applies to all types 
of assays, such as first-line assays, confirmatory assays and 
supplemental assays.  
Rule 2: IVD Medical Devices intended to be used for blood grouping, or tissue 
typing to ensure the immunological compatibility of blood, blood 
components, cells, tissue or organs that are intended for transfusion 
or transplantation, are classified as Class C, except for ABO, rhesus 
(C,c,D,E, e) and anti-Kell determination which are classified as Class 
D.  
Rationale: A high individual risk, where an erroneous result would put the 
patient in an imminent life-threatening situation. The rule divides 
blood grouping into two subsets depending on the nature of the 
blood group antigen the IVD Medical Device is designed to detect, 
and its importance in a transfusion setting. 
Examples: HLA, Anti-Duffy, Anti-Kidd  
 
 
53 
 
Rule 3: 
IVD Medical Devices are classified as Class C if they are intended 
for use: 
1. In detecting the presence of, or exposure to, a serious sexually 
transmitted agent.  Examples:  Sexually transmitted diseases, such as 
Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae.  
2. In detecting the presence in cerebrospinal fluid or blood of an infectious 
agent with a risk of limited propagation. Examples:  Neisseria 
meningitidis or Cryptococcus neoformans. 
3. In detecting the presence of an infectious agent where there is a 
significant risk that an erroneous result would cause death or severe 
disability to the individual or fetus being tested.  Examples:  CMV, 
Chlamydia pneumoniae.  
4. In screening pre-natal women in order to determine their immune 
status towards transmissible agents. Examples:  Rubella or Toxoplasma 
gondii. 
5. In determining infective disease status or immune status, and where 
there is a risk that an erroneous result will lead to a patient 
management decision resulting in an imminent life-threatening 
situation for the patient.  Example:  Legionella pneumophila. 
6. in screening for selection of patients for selective therapy, or in the 
diagnosis of, cancer,  
NOTE: those IVD Medical Devices where the therapy decision would 
usually be made only after further investigation and those used for 
monitoring and cancer staging would fall into class B under rule 6. 
7. in predictive genetic screening, when the outcome of the test would 
ordinarily result in a substantial impact on the life of the individual.  
Examples:  Guthrie test for phenylketonuria, Huntington’s Disease, 
Cystic Fibrosis.  
8. to monitor levels of medicines, substances or biological components, 
when there is a risk that an erroneous result will lead to a patient 
management decision resulting in an immediate life-threatening 
situation for the patient.  Example:  Cardiac markers, Cyclosporin, 
Prothrombin time testing. 
 
 
54 
 
9. In the management of patients suffering from a life-threatening 
infectious disease. Example: HIV Viral Load 
Rationale: Devices in this Class present a moderate public health risk, or a 
high individual risk, where an erroneous result would put the 
patient in an imminent life-threatening situation, or would have a 
major negative impact on outcome.  The devices provide the critical, 
or sole, determinant for the correct diagnosis.  They may also 
present a high individual risk because of the stress and anxiety 
resulting from the information and the nature of the possible follow-
up measures.  
Rule 4: IVD Medical Devices intended for near-patient testing and self-testing 
are classified as Class C, except those devices from which the result is 
not determining a medically critical status, or is preliminary and 
requires follow-up with the appropriate laboratory test in which case 
they are Class B. 
Rationale: In general, these devices are used by individuals with no technical 
expertise and thus the labelling and instructions for use are critical 
to the proper outcome of the test.   
Examples for class C: Blood glucose monitoring, near-patient test for 
Streptococcus B, occult blood test, near-patient devices for blood gases.  
Examples for class B: Pregnancy self-test, Fertility testing, Urine test-strips. 
Rule 5: The following IVD Medical Devices are classified as Class A: 
1. Reagents which possess specific characteristics, intended by the 
manufacturer to make them suitable for in vitro diagnostic procedures 
related to a specific examination. 
2. Instruments intended by the manufacturer specifically to be used for in 
vitro diagnostic procedures  
3. Specimen receptacles 
Note: Any product for general laboratory use not manufactured, sold or 
represented for use in specified in vitro diagnostic applications are not deemed 
to be IVD Medical Devices. However, in certain jurisdictions products for 
general laboratory use are considered to be IVD Medical Devices. 
 
 
55 
 
Rationale: These devices present a low individual risk and no or minimal 
public health risk.  
Examples: Selective/differential microbiological media, identification kits for 
cultured microorganisms, wash solutions, instruments and plain 
urine cup. 
Note 1: In certain jurisdictions there might be differences to whether a device 
classified in this rule is considered an IVD Medical Device. 
Note 2:  Performance of software or instrument that is specifically required 
to perform a particular test will be assessed at the same time as the 
test kit.   
Note 3:  The interdependence of the instrument and test methodology 
prevents the instrument from being assessed separately, even though 
the instrument itself is still classified as Class A. 
Rule 6: IVD Medical Devices not covered in Rules 1 through 5 are classified 
as Class B. 
Rationale: These devices present a moderate individual risk as they are not 
likely to lead to an erroneous result that would cause death or severe 
disability, have a major negative impact on the outcome or put the 
individual in immediate danger. The devices are usually one of 
several determinants. If it is the sole determinant however other 
information is available, such as presenting signs and symptoms or 
other clinical information which may guide a physician, the risk 
classification may be justified.  Other appropriate controls may also 
be in place to validate the results. This Class also includes those 
devices that present a low public health risk because they detect 
infectious agents that are not easily propagated in a population.   
Examples:Blood gases, H. pylori and physiological markers such as hormones, 
vitamins, enzymes, metabolic markers. 
 
Table 9: Description of Common Test Purposes for IVD Medical Devices  
Test Purpose  
Description  
Examples  
Diagnosis  
Diagnostic tests are used to 
determine, verify or confirm a 
patient’s clinical condition as a 
·  genetic test for the diagnosis of 
Tay-Sachs  
 
 
56 
 
sole determinant. This type of 
testing 
also 
includes 
sole 
confirmatory assays (to verify 
results of previous testing) and 
sole exclusion assays (to rule 
out a particular condition).  
These tests are designed to 
evaluate a patient’s current 
state.  
 
·  HBs antigen confirmatory assay 
to verify positive screening results  
·  D-dimer assay for exclusion of 
deep vein thrombosis  
· 
 karyotype 
testing 
for 
the 
diagnosis of Trisomy 18 (Edward’s 
syndrome)  
Aid 
to 
Diagnosis  
Aid to Diagnosis tests are used 
to 
provide 
additional 
information to assist in the 
determination or verification of 
a patient’s clinical status. The 
test 
is 
not 
the 
sole 
determinant.  
These tests are designed to 
evaluate a patient’s current 
state.  
·  troponin test as an aid in 
myocardial infarction diagnosis  
·  genetic testing to aid in the 
diagnosis 
of 
familial 
hypercholesterolaemia (FH)  
· 
 thyroid-stimulating 
hormone 
test to evaluate thyroid function  
·  toxoplasma IgG avidity assay to 
determine likelihood 
of 
active 
infection  
· 
 ANA 
test 
for 
autoimmune 
disease determination  
·  test for genotyping of the Factor 
V Leiden mutation as an aid to 
diagnosis of thrombophilia  
Screening  
Screening tests are used to 
determine the status of a 
disease, 
disorder 
or 
other 
·  test to detect hepatitis B surface 
antigen in donated blood  
 
 
57 
 
physiological 
state 
in 
an 
asymptomatic individual.  
These types of tests include 
genetic screening assays, tests 
for physiological typing, and 
tests used to reduce the risk of 
infectious 
disease 
transmission, such as assays 
for prenatal screening and 
donor screening (transfusion 
or transplantation).  
Depending on the nature of the 
condition and the targeted 
patient population, screening 
tests may be used routinely or 
may be restricted to ‘at risk’ 
patients.  
These tests are designed to 
evaluate 
an 
individual’s 
current state.  
·  prenatal rubella IgG  
screening in pregnant women  
·Prenatal 
genetic 
testing 
for 
trisomy 21 (Down syndrome)  
·Newborn 
genetic 
testing 
for 
phenylketonuria  
· tests for the determination of 
HLA, blood groups and blood 
group factors for donor matching.  
Monitoring  
Monitoring tests are used for 
the measurement of analyte 
levels 
for 
the 
purpose 
of 
adjusting 
treatments/interventions 
as 
required. 
Monitoring 
tests 
include the following:  
Assays which are used to 
ensure that an analyte remains 
within physiological levels or 
· intraoperative iPTH monitoring 
during parathyroidectomy surgery 
to confirm removal of abnormal 
tissue  
· self-test glucose monitoring to 
allow for quick responses to 
hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia  
 
 
58 
 
within 
an 
established 
therapeutic drug range. These 
types of monitoring tests are 
designed 
to 
evaluate 
an 
individual’s current state.  
Assays which are used for 
serial measurement, whereby 
multiple determinations are 
taken over time. These types 
of monitoring tests are typically 
used 
for 
the 
detection/assessment 
of 
disease 
progression/ 
regression, disease recurrence, 
minimum 
residual 
disease, 
response/resistance 
to 
therapy, and/or adverse effects 
due to therapy. These types of 
monitoring tests are designed 
to evaluate changes in an 
individual’s state  
· therapeutic drug monitoring of 
immunosuppressants to prevent 
rejection of transplanted organs  
· viral load testing of patients 
known to be infected with HIV to 
determine treatment response and 
adjust therapy if necessary 
· monitoring of CA 15-3 levels in 
breast 
cancer 
patients 
in 
remission to detect recurrence  
· test for the detection of BCR-ABL 
transcripts 
to 
monitor 
response/resistance in patients 
undergoing treatment for acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) or 
chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)  
·Test for immunoglobulin and T-
cell receptor gene rearrangements 
for 
the 
detection 
of 
minimal 
residual 
disease 
in 
cancer 
patients.   
Predisposition  
Predisposition assays are used 
to determine the likelihood of 
disease onset (i.e., assessing 
the risk of developing the 
disease 
in 
future) 
in 
PR 
symptomatic patients.  
For patients at sufficient risk 
(as determined by test results), 
· Genetic test for apolipoprotein E 
to assess the risk of developing 
Alzheimer’s disease  
· BRCA1/BRCA2 mutation status 
testing to assess the risk of 
developing breast cancer (patient 
may choose to have prophylactic 
 
 
59 
 
preventive interventions may 
be taken.  
These tests are designed to 
evaluate a patient’s future 
state.  
mastectomy 
if 
they 
are 
at 
sufficient risk)  
Prognosis  
Prognostic tests are used to 
measure 
factors 
linked 
to 
clinical outcome irrespective of 
treatment. Such tests may be 
used to estimate the natural 
progression of a disease (i.e., 
outcome in the absence of 
treatment), or to determine the 
likelihood of a clinical outcome 
irrespective 
of 
therapeutic 
intervention.  
These tests are designed to 
evaluate a patient’s future 
state. 
·Highly 
sensitive 
C- 
reactive 
protein measurement for the risk 
stratification 
of 
patients 
with 
acute 
coronary 
syndromes 
to 
determine the likelihood of future 
cardiac events  
·Measurement of baseline HIV-1 
RNA 
level 
to 
assess 
patient 
prognosis  
Cancer Gene Expression profile 
testing for metastasis risk to tailor 
treatment aggressiveness. 
 
Prediction 
(of 
Treatment 
Response 
or 
Reaction)  
Predictive tests are used to 
measure factors that determine 
the 
likelihood 
of 
patient 
responses or adverse reactions 
to a specific therapy.  
Predictive 
tests 
designed 
specifically for use with a 
targeted 
therapy 
are 
sometimes termed ‘companion 
diagnostics’ or ‘personalized 
medicine’.  
·HER-2/neu 
testing 
in 
breast 
cancer 
patients 
to 
assess 
likelihood of response to hormone 
therapy  
·Identification of variations in 
cytochrome 
P450 
genes 
(i.e., 
metabolizer status) to determine 
potential 
therapeutic 
benefits 
and/or 
adverse 
reactions 
to 
antiplatelet treatment  
 
 
60 
 
These tests are designed to 
evaluate a patient’s future 
state.  
Determination 
of 
Physiological 
Status  
Physiological 
status 
determination tests are used to 
evaluate the physiological state 
of an individual for the purpose 
of 
identifying 
a 
human 
condition or characteristic.  
These tests are designed to 
evaluate a patient’s current 
state.  
·hCG test for the determination of 
pregnancy  
  
3.0 References Regulatory Authorities 
1. Australia Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) Device Registration 
License 
2. Health Canada (HC) Device Registration License 
3. Japan Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) 
i. Pre-Market Certification from a Japanese Registered Certification 
Body 
ii. Pre-Market Approval from MHLW 
4. US Food and Drug Administration (US FDA) 
i. 510K clearance 
ii. Premarket Approval (PMA) 
 
5. European Union Notified Bodies (EU NB) via EC certificates issued 
according to 
i. 
Directive 93/42/EEC Annex II section 3 or Annex V for Class IIA 
devices 
ii. 
Directive 98/79/EC Annex IV or Annex V with Annex VII for List 
B and self-testing IVDs 
6 Irish Health Products Regulatory Authority 
7 Swiss Medic 
 
 
61 
 
4.0 Revision History 
 
Section  
Section(S) Modified 
Description Of Change 
Header 
- 
PPB/PER/MDV/GDL/003    
Revision 000   2017 
August 2017 
- PPB/PER/MDV/GDL/005               
REVISION 001   2021 
August 2021 
Main Title  
GUIDELINES ON 
SUBMISSION OF 
DOCUMENTATION FOR 
REGISTRATION OF 
MEDICAL DEVICES 
 
GUIDELINES ON SUBMISSION OF 
DOCUMENTATION FOR 
REGISTRATION OF MEDICAL 
DEVICES INCLUDING IN-VITRO 
DIAGNOSTICS  
 
Introduction  Section Referring To 
Gazette Notice No 35 2014 
Suggested Update To GAZETTE 
NOTICE No. 1879; Gazette Notice 
No 37 2014 
 
Pre-
Introduction  
Nil  
To Include The Adoption Page 
Signed And Dated By The Author 
And QAO 
LTR 
Local Authorized 
Representative 
a. Any 
Manufacturer 
Based 
Outside  
Kenya 
Must 
Designate 
A 
Local 
Authorized 
Representative (LAR). 
The Appointed LAR 
Must Provide Written 
Evidence That They 
Are Acting With The 
Consent 
Of 
A 
Manufacturer 
Located Outside The 
Kenya 
(Annex 
1: 
Letter 
Of 
Local Authorized Representative 
a. Any 
Manufacturer/ 
MAH/Innovator 
Based 
Outside 
Kenya 
Must 
Designate A Local Authorized 
Representative 
(LAR). 
The 
Appointed LAR Must Provide 
Written Evidence That They 
Are Acting With The Consent 
Of A Manufacturer Located 
Outside The Kenya (Annex 1: 
Letter 
Of 
Authorization 
Template) 
The Local Authorized 
Representative Must Obtain A 
Letter From The 
Manufacturer Appointing 
 
 
62 
 
Authorization 
Template) 
 
 
Them As The Exclusive LAR, 
With The Exclusive Rights For 
Distribution, Sale, 
Importation And Registration 
Of The Medical Device.  
A Manufacturer / 
MAH/Innovator Cannot 
Appoint Two LAR For The 
Same Products To Be Sold In 
Kenya.  
Propose To Give A License To 
LAR Indicating Their Practice 
In Medical Device  
1.5.3 
Local Authorized 
Representative And 
Subcontractors 
Only One Local 
Representative Person 
Should Be Identified, And 
This Should Be 
Consistent Across The 
Device Labels, And 
Declarations Of 
Conformity. 
 
Local Authorized Representative 
And Subcontractors 
Only One Local Representative 
Person Should Be Identified, And 
This Should Be Consistent Across 
The Device Labels, And 
Declarations Of Conformity. 
This Requirement Is Mandatory 
Before Registration Approvals Are 
Granted. 
MODULE 1 
- LISTING OF CLASS A 
MEDICAL DEVICES 
Certificate Of Analysis 
(COA) For Of All Materials 
Of Animal, Human, 
Microbial And/Or 
Recombinant Origin Used 
And Manufacturing 
Process (Where Applicable) 
Registration OF CLASS A MEDICAL 
DEVICES 
Certificate Of Analysis (COA) For Of 
All Materials Of Animal, Human, 
Microbial And/Or Recombinant 
Origin Used And Manufacturing 
Process (Where Applicable) 
For Personal Protective Equipments, 
I.E Face Masks, Surgical Face 
Masks, Gloves; A Certificate Of 
Analysis For Conformity Through 
The PPBQC Laboratory 
 
 
63 
 
 
Section 1.3 
Table 6: Summary Of 
Submission Requirements 
(Class B/C/D) 
1.3.Abridged 
Evaluation Route 
Propose To Remove This From 
Guideline As Its Not Being Used. 
1.4 
1.4.Expedited Class B 
Registration 
(EBR) 
Evaluation Route 
Propose To Remove This From 
Guideline As Its Not Being Used. 
Section 1.5 
1.5.Immediate Class B 
Registration 
(IBR) 
Evaluation Route 
1.5.1.Eligibility 
Criteria 
Propose To Remove This From 
Guideline As Its Not Being Used. 
Section 8 
TURN-AROUND-TIME 
(TAT) 
FOR 
PRODUCT 
REGISTRATION 
 
Remove The Immediate, Expedited 
And Abridged Regulatory Pathways 
Revision On Time Times For The 
Turnaround Time 
Consider Removing This Table. 
Include A Footnote On The 
Regulatory Flexibility 
Section 11 
Guidance On Change 
Notification Of Medical 
Devices Including Ivds   
For This To Be Implemented By The 
IT Team. 
Proposed Training To The Staff On 
Change Notifications  
Section 17 
Addendum 1: Guidance 
On The Principle Of Risk 
Based Classification Of 
In-Vitro Diagnostic (IVD) 
Medical Devices 
Inclusion For The Requirements For 
In-Country Assessment By A Ppb 
Recognized Laboratory For 
Performance And Validation As A 
Mandatory Requirement Pre-
Registration. 
Annex 1 
Annex 1: Letter Of 
Authorization Template 
We, [Name Of Product Owner], As 
The Product Owner, Hereby 
Authorise [Name Of Registrant 
(Company Name)], As The Registrant 
 
 
64 
 
We, [Name Of Product 
Owner], As The Product 
Owner, Hereby Authorise 
[Name Of Registrant 
(Company Name)], As The 
Registrant To Prepare And 
Submit Applications For 
The Evaluation And 
Registration Of Medical 
Devices To The Pharmacy 
And Poisons Board On Our 
Behalf. 
To Prepare And Submit Applications 
For The Evaluation And 
Registration Of Medical Devices To 
The Pharmacy And Poisons Board 
On Our Behalf. 
We Give Exclusive Rights To The 
LAR For Importation, Registration 
And Distribution Of Our Product In 
Kenya. 
Prepared By 
Paulyne Wairimu  
Head Medical Devices& 
Ivds 
 
 
 
5.0 Contributors and Reviewers 
1. Dr. Ahmed Mohammed Hussein, Director, Health Products and 
Technologies 
2. Dr. Ronald Inyangala, Deputy-Director, Senior Principal Regulatory 
Officer, Drug Product Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department,  
3. Dr. Peter Mbwiiri Ikamati Chief Principal Regulatory officer, Drug 
Product Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department,  
4. Dr. Paulyne Wairimu, Senior Principal Regulatory Officer Health 
Product and Technologies, Medical Devices and In-Vitro Diagnostics 
Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
5. Dr. Jonathan Meriakol, Senior Principal Regulatory officer, Drug 
Product Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department, Directorate of 
Health Products and Technologies 
6. Dr. Ali Arale, Principal Regulatory Officer, Drug Product Evaluation and 
Registration (DPER) Department, Directorate of Health Products and 
Technologies 
7. Dr. James Owuor, Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Drug Product 
Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department, Directorate of Health 
Products and Technologies 
 
 
65 
 
8. Dr. Edwin Burugu, Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Drug Product 
Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department Directorate of Health 
Products and Technologies 
9. Dr. Eugene Odame, Senior Regulatory officer, Product Evaluation and 
Registration (PER)  (MD&IVDs), Department, Directorate of Health 
Products and Technologies  
10. 
Dr. Serah Chebet Chesaro, Principal Regulatory officer, Drug 
Product Evaluation and Registration (DPER) Department, Directorate of 
Health Products and Technologies 
11. 
Mr. Alex Mutai,  Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Blood and 
Blood Products Department, Directorate of Health Products and 
Technologies 
12. 
Ms. Jacqueline Yahuma , Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, 
Cosmetics 
Department, 
Directorate 
of 
Health 
Products 
and 
Technologies 
13. 
Mr. Henry Chweya, Assistant Principal Regulatory Officer, Border 
line Products Department, Directorate of Health Products and 
Technologies 
14. 
Mr. Peter Mugala, Senior Information and Communication 
Technology Officer; Drug Product Evaluation and Registration (DPER) 
Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
15. 
Mr. 
Anthony 
Kemboi, 
Information 
and 
Communication 
Technology Officer; Drug Product Evaluation and Registration (DPER) 
Department, Directorate of Health Products and Technologies 
16. 
Mr. 
Victor 
Kipchumba, 
Information 
and 
Communication 
Technology Officer Medical Devices Department Directorate of Health 
Products and Technologies 
 
 
6.0 ANNEXURES: 
Annex 1: Letter of Authorization Template 
 
[To be printed on Company Letterhead of Product Owner] 
Medical Device Department  
Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
Lenana Road Offices 
P.o Box 27663-00508 
Nairobi,Kenya. 
 [Date] 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
Subject: Letter of Authorization for [name of Registrant (Company Name)] 
We, [name of Product Owner], as the Product Owner, hereby authorise [name 
of Registrant (Company Name)], as the Registrant to prepare and submit 
applications for the evaluation and registration of medical devices to the 
Pharmacy and Poisons Board on our behalf. 
This authorisation shall apply to the following medical devices: 
[List containing product names of medical devices] 
We also authorise [name of Registrant (Company Name)] to make declarations 
and to submit documents on our behalf, regarding the above medical devices, 
in support of this application. These declarations and submissions are made 
pursuant to the requirements of the Health Act 2017, which includes the 
Health Products and Technologies and any other applicable laws that may 
also be in force. 
This authorisation shall remain in effect until our notification to the Pharmacy 
and Poisons Board in writing (either by postal mail or facsimile transmission) 
that the authorisation is revoked.  
We undertake to provide post-market support and assistance to the Registrant 
as may be required in relation to any matter involving the above medical 
devices. 
We acknowledge that any non-compliance with any registration condition 
issued by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board in relation to medical devices 
registered in Kenya may result in the suspension or cancellation of the medical 
device registration.   
We give exclusive rights to the LAR for importation, registration and 
distribution of our product in Kenya we give exclusive rights for the 
importation, registration and distribution has been given to the LAR 
 
We agree to assist the Pharmacy and Poisons Board with any request for 
information on the above medical devices. 
Yours Sincerely, 
[Signature] 
[Full Name and Title of Senior Company Official] 
[Company stamp] 
 
 
 
 
Annex 2: Marketing History Declaration Template 
 
[To be printed on Company Letterhead of Applicant] 
Medical Device Department  
Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
Lenana Road Offices 
P.o Box 27663-00508 
Nairobi,Kenya. 
 [Date] 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
I, [name of Company], the Applicant for registration of the medical device(s) 
stated below, hereby declare that the medical devices have been marketed in 
the reference regulatory agency’s jurisdiction for at least three years. The first 
date of market introduction in [jurisdiction/country] was [mm/yyyy] (for ECR 
1). 
OR reference stringent authority for at least three years. [mm/yyyy] (for ECR 
1.)This declaration is made with respect to the following medical device(s): 
 [List containing product names of medical devices] 
I, the Applicant, am aware that making a declaration which I know to be 
false is an offence under the Health  Act 2017 (Cap. 244 Laws of Kenya) and 
may result in the cancellation of registration of the above medical devices. 
Yours Sincerely, 
[Signature] 
 [Full Name and Title of Senior Company Official] 
 [Company stamp] 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 3: Safety Declaration Template 
 [To be printed on Company Letterhead of Applicant] 
Medical Device Department  
Pharmacy and Poisons Board 
Lenana Road Offices 
P.o Box 27663-00506, Nairobi, Kenya. 
 [Date] 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
I, [name of Company], the Applicant for registration of the medical device(s) 
stated below, hereby declare that there are no safety issues globally associated 
with  the use of the medical device(s) when used as intended by the Product 
Owner, in the last three years  from  [dd/mm/yyyy] to [dd/mm/yyyy]: 
 No reported deaths; 
 No reported serious deterioration in the state of health1 of any person; and 
 No open field safety corrective actions (including recalls) at the point of 
submission of this application. 
This declaration is made with respect to the following medical device(s): 
 [List containing product names of medical devices] 
I, the Applicant, am aware that making a declaration which I know to be false 
is an offence under the Health  Act 2017 (Cap. 244 Laws of Kenya) and may 
result in the cancellation of registration of the above medical devices. 
Yours Sincerely, 
 [Signature] 
 [Full Name and Title of Senior Company Official] 
 [Company Stamp 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 4 Change Notification  
 
 
(Medical Device is not a subject of an on-going FSCA and conforms to 
Essential Principles for Safety and Performance) 
[To be printed on Company Letterhead of Registrant] 
 Medical Device Branch 
Pre-Marketing Division 
Health Products Regulation Group 
Health Sciences Authority 
[Date] 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
I, [name of Company], the Registrant of the medical device(s) stated below, 
hereby declare that the medical device(s) in this Change Notification 
application, 
☐ Is/are not a subject of an open reportable adverse event and/or an on-going 
field safety corrective action 
☐ Conform(s) to the Essential Principles for Safety and Performance as laid 
out in the guidance for submission of medical devices  
This declaration shall apply to the following medical device(s): 
[List containing product names of medical devices] 
I, the Registrant, am aware that a false declaration is an offence under the 
Health Products Act (Cap. 122D) and may result in the cancellation of 
registration of the above medical devices under Section 37(1) of the Act. 
Yours Sincerely, 
[Signature] 
[Full Name and Title of Senior Company Official] 
[Company stamp] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 5: MEDICAL DEVICES PROCESS FLOW & INTERACTIONS 
 
The Department of Product Evaluation and Registration under the Directorate of Medical Products and Health 
Technologies  oversees the function of Marketing Authorization and Registration of all Medical products and health 
technologies. 
 
The Division of Medical Products Evaluation and Registration is tasked with the Marketing Authorization function on 
Medicines, Biologics, Vaccines, Cosmetics, Food Supplements and Borderline products.  
 
The following is the regulatory process flow with the other regulatory functions: - 
1. Quality control (QC) 
The Product Evaluation and Registration Department provides QC access to Product Specifications and Analytical 
procedures, registration and retention databases. The Product Evaluation and Registration utilizes Certificates of 
analysis for registration of products. The QC is involved in screening and testing of Post marketing Surveillance 
Samples and Samples resulting from Inspections and enforcement activities. Some of these tests are outsourced 
to external laboratories such as the National Quality Control Laboratory(NQCL),  Mission for Essential drugs 
(MEDS), Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI) These results are shared with the Marketing control and 
Surveillance, Inspectorate, Surveillance and Enforcement and Product Evaluation and Registration (Division of 
Health Products Evaluation and Registration and division of Health Technologies Evaluation and Registration) 
2. Marketing Control & Surveillance 
The Function carries out Post marketing Surveillance, it is engaged investigation of product related market 
complaints and poor-quality reports of HPTs, decisions on regulatory actions which include decisions on 
quarantine, recalls , withdrawals, which are enforced by inspectorate department and product evaluation and 
registration department. Conduct post-marketing quality surveys which include sampling and testing, MC 
coordinates protocol development and actual implementation of protocol for sampling and testing in collaboration 
with quality control laboratory 
3.  Inspectorate, Surveillance and Enforcement 
 
 
The Inspectorate, Surveillance and Enforcement function is engaged in Regulatory inspections i.e. the GDP, GMP 
and GCP. Further, the Department is involved in investigations of complaints, investigation of pharma crimes, 
supervision of disposal of pharmaceutical waste, audit of court cases, management and storage of exhibits  
4. National Pharmacovigilance Centre 
Pharmacovigilance unit monitors safety of health products and technologies in the market. This is through both 
active and passive surveillance. There is a system for receiving reports on safety and incidences following use of 
medical devices. There is also a procedure for receiving, investigation and review of field safety action reports. 
Regulatory actions undertaken after review of this reports includes issuing of safety alerts and recommendations 
on use of health products and technologies. 
5. Trade Affairs 
Control of import and export of HPTs as well as health technologies assessment (HTAs) for HPTs include taxation 
regimes and facilitation of access of HPTs, work with product evaluation and registration department, inspectorate 
(port of entries), product safety department and quality control department and licensing department 
6. Licensing 
Licensing of establishments that handle medical products and health technologies. These include wholesale 
dealers, distributors, retail/community pharmacies, hospitals, importers and exporters, manufacturers etc. 
Product registration, inspectorate, trade affairs closely interact with licensing function in executing their functions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 6: Risk Based Classification of Medical Devices with Examples 
 
Category 
Classification 
Examples 
1 
Non-Invasive 
Medical Devices 
 
All Non-Invasive 
devices which come 
into contact with 
injured skin  
-if they are intended 
for channeling or 
storing  
liquids, or gases  
 for the purpose of 
eventual infusion, 
administration or 
introduction into the 
body (Such devices 
are ‘indirectly 
invasive’ in that they 
channel or store 
liquids that will 
eventually be 
delivered into the 
body) 
Class A- if they are intended to be used as a 
mechanical barrier, for Compression or for 
absorption of exudates only (they heal by 
primary intent) where the devices either do not 
touch the patient or contact intact skin only. 
Cotton wool, bandages 
Administration sets for gravity infusion; 
syringes without needles. 
Urine collection bottles; compression 
hosiery; non-invasive electrodes, hospital 
beds. 
 
 
 
 
Class B- if they are intended to be used 
principally with wounds which have breached 
the dermis  
• Including devices principally intended to 
manage the micro-environment of a 
wound. 
•  If they may be connected to an active 
medical device in Class B or a higher 
class .N.B  “Connection” to an active 
device covers those circumstances where 
the safety and performance of the active 
device is influenced by the non-active 
device and vice versa. 
•  if they are intended to be used for  -
channeling blood, or  
storing or channeling other body liquids, or  
storing organs, parts of organs or body tissues,  
for the purpose of eventual infusion, 
administration or introduction into the body 
• where the Medical device is used for the 
treatment consists of filtration, 
centrifuging or exchanges of gas or of 
heat. 
• Non-medicated impregnated gauze 
dressing 
• syringes and administration sets for 
infusion pumps; anaesthesia 
breathing circuits 
 
• Tubes used for blood transfusion, 
organ storage containers 
 
devices to remove carbon dioxide; 
particulate filters in an extracorporial 
circulation system 
 
 
 
 
Class C- if they are intended to be used 
principally with wounds which have breached 
the dermis and can only heal by secondary 
intent 
• If they are Blood Bags that do not 
incorporate an anti-coagulant 
• All non-invasive devices intended for 
modifying the biological or chemical 
composition of  
blood, other body liquids, or other liquids, 
intended for infusion into the body(N.B Such 
devices are ‘indirectly invasive’ in that they 
treat or modify substances that will eventually 
be delivered into the body.  They are normally 
used in conjunction with an active device 
within the scope of either Rule 9 or 11) 
• Dressings for chronic ulcerated 
wounds; dressings for severe burns 
 
• Blood Bags that do not incorporate 
an anti-coagulant 
 
• haemodializers; devices to remove 
white blood cells from whole blood. 
 
 
 
Invasive Medical 
Devices 
1. Class A- All invasive devices with respect 
to body orifices (other than those which 
are surgically invasive) and which: 
➢ -Are not intended for connection to an 
active medical device, or  
➢ Are intended for connection to a Class A 
medical device only. 
➢ If they are intended for transient use 
N.B Such devices are invasive in body orifices 
and are not surgically invasive .Devices tend to 
be diagnostic and therapeutic instruments 
used in ENT, ophthalmology, dentistry, 
proctology, urology and gynecology.  
Classification depends on the duration of use 
and the sensitivity (or vulnerability) of the 
orifice to such invasion. 
2. if they are intended for short-term use in the 
oral cavity as far as the pharynx, in an ear 
canal up to the ear drum or in a nasal cavity,  
3. All surgically invasive devices that are 
reusable surgical instruments 
• Examination gloves; enema 
devices 
• dressings for nose bleeds 
 
 
 
• Manually operated surgical 
drill bits and saws. 
 
 
 
 
Class B- if they are intended for short-term use. 
they are intended for long-term use in the oral 
cavity as far as the pharynx, in an ear canal up 
to the ear-drum or in a nasal cavity and are not 
liable to be absorbed by the mucous membrane 
All invasive devices with respect to body orifices 
(other than those which are surgically invasive) 
that are intended to be connected to an active 
medical device in Class B or a higher class. 
2. All surgically invasive devices intended 
for transient use 
All implantable devices, and long-term 
surgically invasive devices that are intended to 
be placed into the teeth or on prepared tooth 
structure. 
● urinary catheters, tracheal tubes. 
● Orthodontic materials, removable 
dental prosthesis 
● Example-tracheal tubes connected to 
a ventilator; suction catheters for 
stomach drainage; dental aspirator 
tips.  
● A majority of such devices fall into 
several major groups: those that create 
a conduit through the skin (e.g. syringe 
needles; lancets), surgical instruments 
(e.g. single-use scalpels; surgical 
staplers; single-use aortic punch); 
surgical gloves; and various types of 
catheter/sucker  
● materials for inlays, crowns, and 
bridges; dental filling materials. 
 
 
 
 
• Class C- if they are intended for long-
term use; 
• if they are reusable surgical instruments 
intended to supply energy in the form of 
ionizing radiation 
• intended to have a biological effect or be 
wholly or mainly absorbed( NOTES:  (a) 
The ‘biological effect’ referred to is an 
intended one rather than unintentional.  
The term ‘absorption’ refers to the 
degradation of a material within the body 
and the metabolic elimination of the 
resulting degradation products from the 
body.  
(b) This part of the rule does not apply to those 
substances that are excreted without 
modification from the body). 
➢ intended to administer medicinal 
products by means of a delivery system, 
if this is done in a manner that is 
potentially hazardous taking account of 
the mode of application. ( :  The term 
‘administration of medicines’ implies 
storage and/or influencing the 
rate/volume of medicine delivered not 
just channeling. The term ‘potentially 
hazardous manner’ refers to the 
characteristics of the device and not the 
competence of the user) 
➢ urethral stent; contact lenses for 
long-term continuous use  
➢ catheter containing sealed 
radioisotopes 
 
➢ Example-Insufflation gases for the 
abdominal cavity. 
 
➢ insulin pen for self-administration 
➢ infusion cannulae; temporary filling 
materials; non-absorbable skin 
closure devices; tissue stabilizers 
used in cardiac surgery. 
 
➢ surgical adhesive 
 
➢ brachytherapy device 
 
➢  Maxilla-facial implants; bone plates 
and screws; bone cement; non-
absorbable internal sutures; posts to 
secure teeth to the mandibular 
bone(without a bioactive coating) 
 
 
➢ All surgically invasive devices intended 
for short-term use(Includes devices 
that are used during cardiac surgery 
but do not monitor or correct a defect) 
➢ They are intended to undergo chemical 
change in the body 
➢ C-they are intended to supply energy in 
the form of ionizing radiation 
➢ All implantable devices, and long-term 
surgically invasive  
➢  implants used in the orthopaedic, 
dental, ophthalmic, and cardiovascular 
fields. 
 
 
• Class D- they are intended specifically for 
use in direct contact with the central 
nervous system 
• If they are -intended specifically to 
diagnose, monitor or correct a defect of 
the heart or of the central circulatory 
system through direct contact with these 
parts of the body 
• they are intended to have a biological 
effect or to be wholly or mainly absorbed. 
• spinal needle 
• angioplasty balloon catheters and 
related guide wires; dedicated 
disposable cardiovascular surgical 
instruments 
 
• absorbable suture; biological 
adhesive 
 
• Neurological catheter. 
 
 
 
• they are intended specifically for use in 
direct contact with the central nervous 
system 
• they are intended specifically to diagnose, 
monitor or correct a defect of the heart or 
of the central circulatory system through 
direct contact with these parts of the 
body 
• They are intended to be used in direct 
contact with the heart, the central 
circulatory system or the central nervous 
system. 
• D- if they are intended to be life 
supporting or life sustaining 
• they are intended to have a biological 
effect or to be wholly or mainly absorbed 
• if they are intended to administer 
medicinal products 
 
• if they are intended to undergo chemical 
change in the body (except if the devices 
are placed in the teeth) 
• if they are Breast Implants 
• cardiovascular catheters; temporary 
pacemaker leads; carotid artery 
shunts 
• Prosthetic heart valves; 
cardiovascular stents; pacemaker 
leads and electrodes; deep brain 
stimulation electrodes; cerebrospinal 
catheter. 
• -pacemakers; implantable 
defibrillators. 
• Examples- implants claimed to be 
bioactive(Hydroxy-apatite-Hydroxy-
apatite is considered as having 
biological effect only if so claimed 
and demonstrated by the 
manufacturer). 
-subcutaneous infusion ports for long-term 
use.  
• Breast Implants 
 
 
 
Active Medical 
Devices 
• Class A- If they are devices used solely to 
illuminate the patient's body, with light 
in the visible or near infra-red spectrum. 
Examination lamps; surgical microscopes; 
powered hospital beds & wheelchairs; 
powered equipment for the recording, 
processing, viewing of diagnostic images; 
dental curing lights. 
 
 
Class B- All active therapeutic devices intended 
to administer or exchange energy (Such devices 
are mostly electrically powered equipment used 
in surgery; devices for specialized treatment 
and some stimulators.) 
➢ If they are active devices intended for 
diagnosis  
➢ If they are active devices intended to 
supply energy which will be absorbed by 
the human body  
➢ if they are intended to image in vivo 
distribution of radiopharmaceuticals 
➢ If they are active devices that are 
intended to allow direct diagnosis or 
monitoring of vital physiological 
processes 
➢ All active devices intended to administer 
and/or remove medicinal products, body 
liquids or other substances to or from the 
body  
• Muscle stimulators; powered dental 
hand pieces; hearing aids; neonatal 
phototherapy equipment; ultrasound 
equipment for physiotherapy. 
• Equipment for ultrasonic 
diagnosis/imaging, capture of 
physiological signals. 
• magnetic resonance equipment; 
diagnostic ultrasound in non-critical 
applications; evoked response 
stimulators 
• gamma/nuclear cameras. 
➢ Examples-electronic thermometers, 
stethoscopes and blood pressure 
monitors; electrocardiographs 
• Examples-suction equipment; 
feeding pumps; jet injectors for 
vaccination; nebuliser to be used on 
conscious and spontaneously 
breathing patients where failure to 
deliver the appropriate dosage 
 
 
characteristics is not potentially 
hazardous. 
 
 
Class C- their characteristics are such that they 
may administer or exchange energy to or from 
the human body in a potentially hazardous 
way, including ionizing radiation, taking 
account of the nature, the density and site of 
application of the energy 
-All active devices intended to control or 
monitor the performance of active therapeutic 
devices in Class C, or intended directly to 
influence the performance of such devices 
-if they are intended 
they are specifically intended for: 
a) monitoring of vital physiological 
parameters, where the nature of 
variations is such that it could result in 
immediate danger to the patient, for 
instance variations in cardiac 
performance, respiration, activity of 
central nervous system. 
 
b)diagnosing in clinical situations where the 
patient is in immediate danger, 
 
- Active devices intended to emit ionizing 
radiation and intended for diagnostic and/or 
interventional radiology, including devices 
➢ lung ventilators; baby incubators; 
electrosurgical generators; external 
pacemakers and defibrillators; 
surgical lasers; lithotriptors; 
therapeutic X-ray and other sources 
of ionizing radiation 
• external feedback systems for active 
therapeutic devices. 
• monitors/alarms for intensive care; 
biological sensors; oxygen saturation 
monitors; apnoea monitors. 
• ultrasound equipment for use in 
interventional cardiac procedures 
• devices for the control, monitoring or 
influencing of the emission of 
ionizing radiation. 
• Infusion pumps; anaesthesia 
equipment; dialysis equipment; 
hyperbaric chambers; nebulizer 
where the failure to deliver the 
appropriate dosage characteristics 
could be hazardous. 
 
 
which control or monitor such devices, or those 
which directly influence their performance. 
-if-this is done in a manner that is potentially 
hazardous, taking account of the nature of the 
substances involved, of the part of the body 
concerned and of the mode and route of 
administration 
 
Exceptional Classes  
 
Medical Devices 
which Incorporate 
Medicinal 
Substances 
• Class D- All devices incorporating, as an 
integral part, a substance which, if used 
separately, can be considered to be a 
medicinal product, and which is liable to 
act on the human body with action 
ancillary to that of the devices 
• This medical devices incorporate 
Medicinal substances in an ancillary role 
Examples antibiotic bone cements; 
heparin-coated catheters; wound dressings 
incorporating antimicrobial agents to 
provide ancillary action on the wound; 
blood bags incorporating an anti-coagulant 
 
Devices  
manufactured from 
or incorporate non-
viable animal tissues 
or their derivatives 
• Class A- A-such devices are 
manufactured from or incorporate non-
viable animal tissues or their derivatives 
that come in contact with intact skin only  
leather components of orthopedic 
appliances 
 
Medical Devices- 
used for sterilizing or 
Class A- they are intended to clean medical 
devices by means of physical action only 
 
 
 
 
Disinfecting Medical 
Devices 
Class B: All devices intended specifically to be 
used for sterilizing or disinfecting medical 
devices 
Desk-top sterilizers for use with dental 
instruments. 
 
 
• Class C- they are disinfectant solutions 
or washer-disinfectors intended 
specifically for invasive medical devices, 
as the end point of processing,  
washer-disinfector equipment specifically for 
disinfecting an endoscope or another invasive 
device 
solutions intended to be used for the 
disinfection of medical devices without 
further processing (for example in a 
steriliser) including those where the 
infective agent is a prion; 
 
Medical Devices 
Incorporating Animal 
or Human 
Cells/Tissues/Deriva
tives 
Class D: All devices manufactured from or 
incorporating animal or human 
cells/tissues/derivatives thereof, whether viable 
or non-viable 
porcine heart valves 
 
Medical Devices for 
Ophthalmic 
Solutions Use 
Are in Class C-All devices that are intended 
specifically to be used for disinfecting, cleaning, 
rinsing or, when appropriate, hydrating contact 
lenses 
Contact cleaning solutions 
 
Medical Devices for 
Contraception or the 
prevention of STD’s 
Class C- All devices used for contraception or 
the prevention of the transmission of sexually 
transmitted diseases 
Condoms; Contraceptive diaphragms 
 
 
 
Implantable Medical 
Devices for Long-
term Use 
Class D- they are implantable or long-term 
invasive devices 
intrauterine contraceptive device 
 
Annex 6: Example of an Essential Principles Conformity Checklist 
A Sample of the Completed Essential Principles Conformity Checklist is herewith attached for illustrative purposes to 
the applicant. 
For a medical device to be listed, the Local Responsible Person, with support from the manufacturer, is responsible for 
demonstrating that the device conforms to the Essential Principles of Safety and Performance of Medical Devices, as well 
as the Medical Device Labelling Requirements. 
 
EP Checklist control number: 
Product Owner Name: 
Product Name: 
No. 
Essential Principles – General requirements 
Applicabl
e to the 
device? 
Method of 
Conformity 
Identity of 
Specific 
Documents 
 
 
2 
Medical devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way 
that, when used under the conditions and for the purposes intended 
and, where applicable, by virtue of the technical knowledge, 
experience, education or training of intended users, they will not 
compromise the clinical condition or the safety of patients, or the 
safety and health of users or, where applicable, other persons, 
provided that any risks which may be associated with their use 
constitute acceptable risks when weighed against the benefits to the 
patient and are compatible with a high level of protection of health 
and safety. 
Yes  
1.The devices are 
designed and 
manufactured under 
a full quality 
management system 
in accordance with 
ISO 13485 and 
presently certified  
2.The implantable 
cardiac pacemaker is 
tested to comply with 
ISO 5841-1 standard  
3. Risk analysis has 
been performed in 
accordance with ISO 
14971. Together with 
the proactive 
surveillance studies, 
it shows that any 
risks which may be 
associated with the 
devices are 
acceptable when 
weighed against the 
benefits to the 
patient and are 
compatible with a 
high level of 
1. ISO 13485 
Certificate No. 
012345  
2. Type Test 
Certificate No. 
123456 compliant 
with ISO 5841-1 
standard.  
 
3. Proactive 
Surveillance Report 
PSR-001  
4. Risk Analysis 
Report RAR-001  
 
 
protection of health 
and safety  
 
 
3 
The solutions adopted by the product owner for the design and 
manufacture of the devices should conform to safety principles, 
taking account of the generally acknowledged state of the art. When 
risk reduction is required, the product owner should control the 
risk(s) so that the residual risk(s) associated with each hazard is 
judged acceptable. The product owner should apply the following 
principles in the priority order listed: 
● 
identify known or foreseeable hazards and estimate the 
associated risks arising from the intended use and foreseeable 
misuse, 
● 
eliminate risks as far as reasonably practicable through 
inherently safe design and manufacture, 
● 
reduce as far as is reasonably practicable the remaining risks 
by taking adequate protection measures, including alarms, 
● 
inform users of any residual risks. 
Yes  
-DITTA- 
-DITTA- 
4 
Devices should achieve the performance intended by the product 
owner and be designed, manufactured and packaged in such a way 
YES 
-DITTA- 
-DITTA- 
 
 
that they are suitable for one or more of the functions within the 
scope of the definition of a medical device.  
5 
The characteristics and performances referred to in Clauses 1, 2 and 
3 should not be adversely affected to such a degree that the health 
or safety of the patient or the user and, where applicable, of other 
persons are compromised during the lifetime of the device, as 
indicated by the product owner, when the device is subjected to the 
stresses which can occur during normal conditions of use and has 
been properly maintained in accordance with the product owner’s 
instructions. 
 
-DITTA- 
-DITTA- 
6 
The devices should be designed, manufactured and packed in such 
a way that their characteristics and performances during their 
intended use will not be adversely affected under transport and 
storage conditions (for example, fluctuations of temperature and 
humidity) taking account of the instructions and information 
provided by the product owner. 
 
-DITTA- 
-DITTA- 
 
 
7 
The benefits must be determined to outweigh any undesirable side 
effects for the performances intended. 
 
-DITTA- 
-DITTA- 
8 
Every medical device requires clinical evidence, appropriate for the 
use and classification of the device, demonstrating that the device 
complies with the applicable provisions of the essential principles. A 
clinical evaluation should be conducted. 
 
-DITTA- 
-DITTA- 
Essential Principles – Design and Manufacturing Requirements 
8.1 
The devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way as 
to ensure the characteristics and performance referred to in Clauses 
1 to 6 of the 'General Requirements'. Particular attention should be 
paid to: 
● 
the choice of materials used, particularly as regards toxicity 
and, where appropriate, flammability, 
● 
the compatibility between the materials used and biological 
tissues, cells, body fluids, and specimens, taking account of 
the intended purpose of the device, 
YES 
The materials used 
to manufacture the 
device have been 
subject to biological 
evaluation in 
accordance with ISO 
10993 standards.  
Biological 
Evaluation 
Test 
Report 
No. 012345 
 
 
● 
the choice of materials used should reflect, where appropriate, 
matters such as hardness, wear and fatigue strength. 
8.2 
The devices should be designed, manufactured and packed in such 
a way as to minimise the risk posed by contaminants and residues 
to the persons involved in the transport, storage and use of the 
devices and to patients, taking account of the intended purpose of 
the product. Particular attention should be paid to tissues exposed 
and to the duration and frequency of exposure. 
Yes 
1.The devices are 
packaged in 
accordance with a 
system in compliance 
with ISO 11607.  
2.The materials used 
to manufacture the 
device have been 
subject to biological 
evaluation in 
accordance with ISO 
10993 standards.  
Biological 
Evaluation Test 
Report No. 012345  
 
 
8.3 
The devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way 
that they can be used safely with the materials, substances and 
gases with which they enter into contact during their normal use or 
during routine procedures; if the devices are intended to administer 
medicinal products they should be designed and manufactured in 
such a way as to be compatible with the medicinal products 
concerned according to the provisions and restrictions governing 
these products and that their performance is maintained in 
accordance with the intended use. 
YES 
1.Risk 
analysis 
has 
been 
performed 
accordance 
with 
ISO 
14971 
2.The 
materials 
used 
to 
manufacture 
the device have 
been subject to 
biological 
evaluation 
in 
accordance 
with 
ISO 
10993 
standards  
1.Biological 
evaluation 
Test Report No. 
012345  
 
2. Risk Analysis 
Report RAR-001  
 
 
8.4 
Where a device incorporates, as an integral part, a substance which, 
if used separately, may be considered to be a medicinal 
product/drug as defined in the relevant legislation that applies and 
which is liable to act upon the body with action ancillary to that of 
the device, the safety, quality and usefulness of the substance 
should be verified, taking account of the intended purpose of the 
device. 
no  
not applicable  
not applicable 
8.5 
The devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way as 
to reduce as far as reasonably practicable and appropriate the risks 
posed by substances that may leach or leak from the device. 
Yes  
1.The materials used 
to manufacture the 
device have been 
subject to biological 
evaluation in 
accordance with ISO 
10993 standards.  
2.Risk analysis has 
been performed in 
accordance with ISO 
14971.  
1.Biological 
evaluation 
Test Report No. 
012345  
2. Risk Analysis 
Report RAR-001  
8.6 
Devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way as to 
reduce as far as reasonably practicable and appropriate risks posed 
by the unintentional ingress or egress of substances into or from the 
Yes 
Risk analysis has 
been performed in 
accordance with ISO 
14971.  
Risk Analysis 
Report RAR-001  
 
 
device taking into account the device and the nature of the 
environment in which it is intended to be used. 
9
Infection and microbial contamination 
 
 
 
9.1 
The devices and manufacturing processes should be designed in 
such a way as to eliminate or to reduce as far as reasonably 
practicable and appropriate the risk of infection to patients, users 
and, where applicable, other persons. The design should: 
● allow easy handling, 
 
and, where necessary: 
● reduce as far as reasonably practicable and appropriate any 
microbial leakage from the device and/or microbial exposure 
during use, 
● prevent microbial contamination of the device, or specimen where 
applicable, by the patient, user or other person. 
yes 
The devices are 
produced under 
strictly controlled 
conditions to 
minimize 
contamination. The 
devices are sterilized 
using EtO. The 
methods of 
sterilization and 
process control of 
sterilization are in 
conformance with 
ISO 11135 
2.Risk analysis has 
been performed in 
accordance with ISO 
14971.  
3. The devices are 
packaged in 
Risk 
Analysis 
Report 
RAR-
001  
 
 
accordance with a 
system in compliance 
with ISO 11607.  
9.2 
Where a device incorporates substances of biological origin, the risk 
of infection must be reduced as far as reasonably practicable and 
appropriate 
by 
selecting 
appropriate 
sources, 
donors 
and 
substances and by using, as appropriate, validated inactivation, 
conservation, test and control procedures. 
NO 
Not applicable  
not applicable 
 
 
9.3 
Products incorporating non-viable tissues, cells and substances of 
animal origin falling within the definition of a medical device, should 
originate from animals that have been subjected to veterinary 
controls and surveillance adapted to the intended use of the tissues. 
The product owner is required to retain information on the 
geographical origin of the animals. Processing, preservation, testing 
and handling of tissues, cells and substances of animal origin 
should be carried out so as to provide optimal safety. In particular, 
safety with regard to viruses and other transmissible agents should 
be addressed by implementation of validated methods of elimination 
or inactivation in the course of the manufacturing process. 
YES 
Not applicable  
Not applicable  
9.4 
For products incorporating cells, tissues and derivatives of microbial 
or recombinant origin falling within the definition of a medical 
device, 
the 
selection 
of 
sources/donors, 
the 
processing, 
preservation, testing and handling of cells, tissues and derivatives of 
such origin should be carried out so as to provide optimal safety. In 
particular, safety with regard to viruses and other transmissible 
agents should be addressed by implementation of validated methods 
YES 
Not applicable  
Not applicable  
 
 
of elimination or inactivation in the course of the manufacturing 
process. 
9.5 
For products incorporating non-viable human tissues, cells and 
substances falling within the definition of a medical device, the 
selection of sources, donors and/or substances of human origin, the 
processing, preservation, testing and handling of tissues, cells and 
substances of such origin should be carried out so as to provide 
optimal safety. In particular, safety with regard to viruses and other 
transmissible agents should be addressed by implementation of 
validated methods of elimination or inactivation in the course of the 
manufacturing process. 
YES 
Not applicable  
Not applicable  
 
 
9.6 
Devices labelled as having a special microbiological state should be 
designed, manufactured and packed to ensure they remain so when 
placed on the market and remain so under the transport and storage 
conditions specified by the product owner. 
yes  
-DITTA- 
Risk 
Analysis 
Report RAR-001  
9.7 
Devices 
delivered 
in a 
sterile 
state 
should 
be 
designed, 
manufactured and packed in a non-reusable pack, and/or according 
to appropriate procedures, to ensure that they are sterile when 
placed on the market and remain sterile, under the transport and 
storage conditions indicated by the product owner, until the 
protective packaging is damaged or opened. 
yes 
The devices are 
sterilized using EtO. 
The methods of 
sterilization and 
process control of 
sterilization are in 
conformance with 
ISO 11135.  
Risk 
Analysis 
Report RAR-001  
9.8 
Devices labelled either as sterile or as having a special 
microbiological state should have been processed, manufactured 
and, if applicable, sterilized by appropriate, validated methods. 
yes  
The devices are 
sterilized in 
conditions tightly 
controlled under the 
Quality Management 
System that governs 
the entire 
manufacturing 
process. The 
environments are in 
compliance with ISO 
14644 standard  
Clean Room 
Certificate No. 
012345  
 
 
9.9 
Devices intended to be sterilized should be manufactured in 
appropriately controlled (e.g. environmental) conditions. 
NO 
Not applicable  
N?A 
9.10 Packaging systems for non-sterile devices should keep the product 
without deterioration at the level of cleanliness stipulated and, if the 
devices are to be sterilized prior to use, minimize the risk of microbial 
contamination; the packaging system should be suitable taking 
account of the method of sterilization indicated by the product 
owner. 
NO 
Not applicable  
N/A 
9.11 The packaging and/or label of the device should distinguish between 
identical or similar products placed on the market in both sterile 
and non-sterile condition. 
NO 
Not applicable  
Not applicable  
10.1 If the device is intended for use in combination with other devices or 
equipment, the whole combination, including the connection system 
should be safe and should not impair the specified performance of 
the devices. Any restrictions on use applying to such combinations 
should be indicated on the label and/or in the instructions for use. 
NO 
Not applicable  
Not applicable  
 
 
10.2 Devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way as to 
remove or reduce as far as reasonably practicable and appropriate: 
● the risk of injury, in connection with their physical features, 
including the volume/pressure ratio, dimensional and where 
appropriate ergonomic features; 
● risks connected with reasonably foreseeable external influences 
or environmental conditions, such as magnetic fields, external 
electrical and electromagnetic effects, electrostatic discharge, 
pressure, humidity, temperature or variations in pressure and 
acceleration; 
● the risks connected to their use in conjunction with materials, 
substances and gases with which they may come into contact 
during normal conditions of use; 
● the risks of accidental penetration of substances into the device; 
● the risk of incorrect identification of specimens; 
● the risks of reciprocal interference with other devices normally 
used in the investigations or for the treatment given; 
YES  
1.The device is tested 
to comply with ISO 
5841-1.  
2.Risk analysis has 
been performed in 
accordance with ISO 
14971.  
1.Type Test 
Certificate No. 
123456 compliant 
with ISO 5841-1.  
2.Risk Analysis 
Report RAR-001  
 
 
● risks arising where maintenance or calibration are not possible 
(as with implants), from ageing of materials used or loss of 
accuracy of any measuring or control mechanism. 
 
 
10.3 Devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way as to 
minimise the risks of fire or explosion during normal use and in 
single fault condition. Particular attention should be paid to devices 
whose intended use includes exposure to or use in association with 
flammable 
substances 
or 
substances 
which 
could 
cause 
combustion. 
YES 
DITTA 
DITTA 
10.4 Devices must be designed and manufactured in such a way as to 
facilitate the safe disposal of any waste substances. 
NO 
Not applicable  
N/A  
11.1 Devices with a measuring function, where inaccuracy could have a 
significant adverse effect on the patient, should be designed and 
manufactured in such a way as to provide sufficient accuracy, 
precision and stability for their intended purpose of the device. The 
limits of accuracy should be indicated by the product owner. 
no 
Not applicable 
Not applicable  
 
 
11.2 Diagnostic devices should be designed and manufactured in such a 
way as to provide sufficient accuracy, precision and stability for their 
intended use, based on appropriate scientific and technical 
methods. In particular the design should address sensitivity, 
specificity, trueness, repeatability, reproducibility, control of known 
relevant interference and limits of detection, as appropriate. 
 
Not applicable 
N/A 
11.3 Where the performance of devices depends on the use of calibrators 
and/or control materials, the traceability of values assigned to such 
calibrators and/or control materials should be assured through a 
quality management system. 
 
Not applicable 
N/A 
11.4 Any measurement, monitoring or display scale should be designed 
in line with ergonomic principles, taking account of the intended 
purpose of the device. 
 
Not applicable 
N/A 
11.5 Wherever possible values expressed numerically should be in 
commonly accepted, standardized units, and understood by the 
users of the device. 
 
Not applicable 
N/A 
 
 
12.1
.1 
General 
Devices should be designed and manufactured and packaged in 
such a way that exposure of patients, users and other persons to 
any emitted radiation should be reduced as far as practicable and 
appropriate, compatible with the intended purpose, whilst not 
restricting the application of appropriate specified levels for 
therapeutic and diagnostic purposes. 
 
Not applicable 
N/A 
12.2
.1 
Intended radiation 
Where devices are designed to emit hazardous, or potentially 
hazardous, levels of visible and/or invisible radiation necessary for 
a specific medical purpose the benefit of which is considered to 
outweigh the risks inherent in the emission, it should be possible for 
the user to control the emissions. Such devices should be designed 
and manufactured to ensure reproducibility of relevant variable 
parameters within an acceptable tolerance. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
 
 
12.2
.2 
Where devices are intended to emit potentially hazardous, visible 
and/or invisible radiation, they should be fitted, where practicable, 
with visual displays and/or audible warnings of such emissions. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
12.3
.1 
Unintended radiation 
Devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way that 
exposure of patients, users and other persons to the emission of 
unintended, stray or scattered radiation is reduced as far as 
practicable and appropriate. 
 
Not applicable 
N/A 
12.4
.1 
Instructions for use 
The operating instructions for devices emitting radiation should give 
detailed information as to the nature of the emitted radiation, means 
of protecting the patient and the user and on ways of avoiding 
misuse and of eliminating the risks inherent in installation. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
 
 
12.5
.1 
Ionizing radiation 
Devices intended to emit ionising radiation should be designed and 
manufactured in such a way as to ensure that, where practicable, 
the quantity, geometry and energy distribution (or quality) of 
radiation emitted can be varied and controlled taking into account 
the intended use. 
 
Not applicable 
N/A 
12.5
.2 
Ionizing Radiation 
Devices emitting ionizing radiation intended for diagnostic radiology 
should be designed and manufactured in such a way as to achieve 
appropriate image and/or output quality for the intended medical 
purpose whilst minimizing radiation exposure of the patient and 
user. 
 
Not applicable 
N/A 
12.5
.3 
Ionizing radiation 
Devices emitting ionizing radiation, intended for therapeutic 
radiology should be designed and manufactured in such a way as to 
enable reliable monitoring and control of the delivered dose, the 
 
Not applicable 
N/A 
 
 
beam type and energy and where appropriate the energy distribution 
of the radiation beam. 
13 
Requirements for medical devices connected to or equipped with an 
energy source  
 
 
 
13.1  
Devices incorporating electronic programmable systems, including 
software, should be designed to ensure the repeatability, reliability 
and performance of these systems according to the intended use. In 
the event of a single fault condition in the system, appropriate means 
should be adopted to eliminate or reduce as far as practicable and 
appropriate consequent risks. 
 
The device is tested 
to comply with ISO 
5841-1 standard.  
2. Type Test 
Certificate No. 
123456 compliant 
with ISO 5841-1 
standard.  
3. Risk analysis has 
been performed 
accordance with ISO 
14971.  
1.3485 Certificate 
No. 012345  
2. The device is 
tested to comply 
with ISO 5841-1 
standard.  
3.. Type Test 
Certificate No. 
123456 compliant 
with ISO 5841-1 
standard.  
 
 
13.2 Devices where the safety of the patients depends on an internal 
power supply should be equipped with a means of determining the 
state of the power supply. 
 
1.The devices are 
designed and 
manufactured under 
a full quality 
management system 
in accordance with 
ISO 13485 and 
presently certified  
Type Test Certificate 
No. 123456 
compliant with ISO 
5841-1 standard.  
13.3 Devices where the safety of the patients depends on an external 
power supply should include an alarm system to signal any power 
failure. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
13.4 Devices intended to monitor one or more clinical parameters of a 
patient should be equipped with appropriate alarm systems to alert 
the user of situations which could lead to death or severe 
deterioration of the patient's state of health. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
13.5 Devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way as to 
reduce as far as practicable and appropriate the risks of creating 
electromagnetic interference which could impair the operation of 
this or other devices or equipment in the usual environment. 
 
N/A 
N/A 
 
 
13.6 Devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way as to 
provide an adequate level of intrinsic immunity to electromagnetic 
disturbance to enable them to operate as intended. 
 
Not applicable 
N/A 
13.7
.1 
Protection against electrical risks 
Devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way as to 
avoid, as far as possible, the risk of accidental electric shocks during 
normal use and in single fault condition, provided the devices are 
installed and maintained as indicated by the product owner. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
14.1 Protection against mechanical risks 
Devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way as to 
protect the patient and user against mechanical risks connected 
with, for example, resistance to movement, instability and moving 
parts. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
 
 
14.2 Devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way as to 
reduce to the lowest practicable level the risks arising from vibration 
generated by the devices, taking account of technical progress and 
of the means available for limiting vibrations, particularly at source, 
unless the vibrations are part of the specified performance. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
14.3 Devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way as to 
reduce to the lowest practicable level the risks arising from the noise 
emitted, taking account of technical progress and of the means 
available to reduce noise, particularly at source, unless the noise 
emitted is part of the specified performance. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
14.4 Terminals and connectors to the electricity, gas or hydraulic and 
pneumatic energy supplies which the user has to handle should be 
designed and constructed in such a way as to minimize all possible 
risks. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
14.5 Accessible parts of the devices (excluding the parts or areas intended 
to supply heat or reach given temperatures) and their surroundings 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
 
 
should not attain potentially dangerous temperatures under normal 
use. 
15.1 protection against the risks posed to the patient by supplied energy 
or substances 
Devices for supplying the patient with energy or substances should 
be designed and constructed in such a way that the delivered 
amount can be set and maintained accurately enough to guarantee 
the safety of the patient and of the user. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
15.2 Devices should be fitted with the means of preventing and/or 
indicating any inadequacies in the delivered amount which could 
pose a danger. Devices should incorporate suitable means to 
prevent, as far as possible, the accidental release of dangerous levels 
of energy from an energy and/or substance source. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
 
 
15.3 The function of the controls and indicators should be clearly 
specified on the devices. Where a device bears instructions required 
for its operation or indicates operating or adjustment parameters by 
means 
of 
a 
visual 
system, 
such 
information 
should 
be 
understandable to the user and, as appropriate, the patient. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
16.1 Such devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way 
that they perform appropriately for their intended purpose taking 
into account the skills and the means available to users and the 
influence resulting from variation that can reasonably be anticipated 
in user’s technique and environment. The information and 
instructions provided by the product owner should be easy for the 
user to understand and apply.  
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
16.2 Such devices should be designed and manufactured in such a way 
as to reduce as far as practicable the risk of use error in the handling 
of the device and, if applicable, the specimen, and also in the 
interpretation of results. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
 
 
16.3 Such devices should, where reasonably possible, include a 
procedure by which the user can verify that, at the time of use, that 
the product will perform as intended by the product owner. 
 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
17 
Information supplied by the manufacturer 
 
 
 
17.1 Users should be provided with the information needed to identify the 
product owner, to use the device safely and to ensure the intended 
performance, taking account of their training and knowledge. This 
information should be easily understood. 
yes 
The information 
supplied with the 
device Labels and 
instructions complies 
with the labelling 
requirements for use 
enclosed under 
specified under 
guidance document 
oo1. 
labels 
and 
instructions 
for 
use 
enclosed 
under section 2 
of 
the 
submission 
folder. 
17.2 Clinical investigations on human subjects should be carried out in 
accordance with the spirit of the Helsinki Declaration. This includes 
every step in the clinical investigation from first consideration of the 
need and justification of the study to publication of the results. 
no 
Not applicable  
not applicable  
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 7: Summary Technical Documentation for Demonstrating Conformity to the Essential Principles of Safety and 
Performance of IVD Medical Devices (STED) 
 
 
Essential Principles Checklist 
 
Identity of IVD medical device:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Essential Principle 
Identify of IVD Medical Device 
Applicable 
to the 
device? 
Method Used 
to 
Demonstrate 
Conformity  
Method 
Reference 
Reference to 
Supporting Controlled 
Documents 
 
General Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 5.1 
Medical devices should be designed and 
manufactured in such a way that, when used under 
the conditions and for the purposes intended and, 
where applicable, by virtue of the technical knowledge, 
experience, education or training of intended users, 
they will not compromise the clinical condition or the 
safety of patients, or the safety and health of users or, 
where applicable, other persons, provided that any 
risks which may be associated with their use 
constitute acceptable risks when weighed against the 
benefits to the patient and are compatible with a high 
level of protection of health and safety. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.2 
The solutions adopted by the manufacturer for 
the design and manufacture of the devices should 
conform to safety principles, taking account of the 
generally acknowledged state of the art.  When risk 
reduction is required, the manufacturer should control 
the risk(s) so that the residual risk(s) associated with 
each hazard is judged acceptable.  The manufacturer 
should apply the following principles in the priority 
order listed:  
▪ 
identify known or foreseeable hazards and 
estimate the associated risks arising from the 
intended use and foreseeable misuse,  
▪ 
eliminate risks as far as reasonably practicable 
through inherently safe design and manufacture,  
▪ 
reduce as far as is reasonably practicable the 
remaining risks by taking adequate protection 
measures, including alarms, 
▪ 
inform users of any residual risks. 
 
 
 
 
 5.3 
Devices should achieve the performance 
intended by the manufacturer and be designed, 
manufactured and packaged in such a way that they 
are suitable for one or more of the functions within the 
scope of the definition of a medical device applicable in 
each jurisdiction. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.4 
The characteristics and performances referred to 
in Clauses 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 should not be adversely 
affected to such a degree that the health or safety of 
the patient or the user and, where applicable, of other 
persons are compromised during the lifetime of the 
device, as indicated by the manufacturer, when the 
device is subjected to the stresses which can occur 
during normal conditions of use and has been properly 
maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s 
instructions. 
 
 
 
 
 5.5 
The devices should be designed, manufactured 
and packed in such a way that their characteristics 
and performances during their intended use will not be 
adversely affected under transport and storage 
conditions (for example, fluctuations of temperature 
and humidity) taking account of the instructions and 
information provided by the manufacturer. 
 
 
 
 
 5.6 
The benefits must be determined to outweigh 
any undesirable side effects for the performances 
intended. 
 
 
 
 
 
Design and Manufacturing Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 5.7 
Chemical, physical and biological properties 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.7.1 The devices should be designed and 
manufactured in such a way as to ensure the 
characteristics and performance referred to in Clauses 
5.1 to 5.6 of the 'General Requirements'. Particular 
attention should be paid to:  
▪ 
the choice of materials used, particularly as regards 
toxicity and, where appropriate, flammability,  
▪ 
the compatibility between the materials used and 
biological tissues, cells, body fluids, and specimens, 
taking account of the intended purpose of the 
device,  
▪ 
the choice of materials used should reflect, where 
appropriate, matters such as hardness, wear and 
fatigue strength. 
 5.7.2 The devices should be designed, manufactured 
and packed in such a way as to minimize the risk 
posed by contaminants and residues to the persons 
involved in the transport, storage and use of the 
devices and to patients, taking account of the intended 
purpose of the product.  Particular attention should be 
paid to tissues exposed and to the duration and 
frequency of exposure. 
 5.7.3 ------------------------------- etc. -----------------------
--------------------- 
 5.7.4 ------------------------------- etc. -----------------------
--------------------- 
 
 
 5.7.5  
 5.7.6  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Declaration  
 
I confirm that I have neither amended the wording in this form, nor otherwise 
altered the form in any material manner, apart from filling in the blanks. I 
declare that the information provided in this form is accurate and correct and 
the device conforms to all the applicable requirements stipulated above. 
Name: 
Position: 
The Applicant (Local Authorized Representative):  
Signature: 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………
…..Date:……………………….. 
 
References 
1. Global Harmonization Task Force (GHTF)-/SG1/N12:2000 Role of 
Standards in the Assessment of Medical Devices. 
2. GHTF/SG1/N29:2005 Information Document Concerning the Definition 
of the Term ‘Medical Device’. 
3. GHTF/SG1/N40:2006 Principles of Conformity Assessment for Medical 
Devices. 
4. GHTF/SG1/N41:2005 Essential Principles of Safety and Performance of 
Medical Device. 
5. The Global Harmonization Task Force (GHTF)which is now The 
International Medical Devices Regulatory Forum (IMDRF) 
6. The Asian Harmonization Working Party (AHWP) 
7. British Standard Institute 
8. Singapore Health Safety Authority (HSA) 
9. Global Medical Devices Agency 
10. 
Medical Devices -ISO 13485 Standards-Quality Management 
Systems-Requirements for Regulatory purposes 2016 
1. WHO global model regulatory framework for medical devices including 
in vitro diagnostic medical devices (WHO Medical device technical series 
2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEXES 
Addendum 1-Guidance on the principle of Risk Based Classification of 
In-Vitro Diagnostic (IVD) Medical Devices 
Annexes 
Annex 1: Letter of Authorization Template  
Annex 2: Marketing History Declaration Template (Class B) 
Annex 3: Safety Declaration Template 
Annex 4. Guidance on Change Notification of Medical Devices including IVDs   
Annex 5: MEDICAL DEVICES PROCESS FLOW & INTERACTIONS 
Annex 6: Risk-Based Classification of Medical Devices with Examples 
Annex 7: Summary Technical Documentation for Demonstrating Conformity 
to the Essential Principles of Safety and Performance of Medical Devices 
(STED) 
Annex 8: Summary Technical Documentation for Demonstrating Conformity 
to the Essential Principles of Safety and Performance of IVD Medical Devices 
(STED) 
Tables 
Table 1: Risk Based Classification of Medical Devices and Examples  
Table 2: Types of marketing clearances or approvals from each country/region 
Table 3: Summary of Application Process to be followed for All Medical 
Devices. 
Table 4: Summary of Submission Requirements for listing of Class A 
Table 5: Summary of Submission Requirements for Class B 
Table 6: Summary of Submission Requirements for Class C and D  
Table 7: Turn-around-time (TAT) for medical devices registration  
Table 8: Registration, retention and variations fees for Medical Devices  
Table 9: Categories of Change Notification for Class A, B, C and D Medical 
Devices  
Table 10: Risk classification of In-Vitro Diagnostics and Examples. 
Table 11: Description of Common Test Purposes for IVD Medical Devices 
 
 
 
Revision History  
 
Revision 
No 
Date 
Author/Rev
iewer 
Sections 
amended  
Reason for change 
000 
Augu
st 
2021 
Paulyne  
Header 
PPB/PER/MDV/GDL/0
03                                   
revision 000   2017 
August 2017 
 
 
 
Main title  
GUIDELINES ON 
SUBMISSION OF 
DOCUMENTATION FOR 
 
 
REGISTRATION OF 
MEDICAL DEVICES 
 
 
 
 
Introduction  Section referring to 
gazette notice no 35 
2014 
 
 
 
LTR 
Local Authorized 
Representative 
h. Any 
manufacturer 
based 
outside  
Kenya 
must 
designate a local 
authorized 
Representative 
(LAR). 
The 
appointed 
LAR 
must 
provide 
written 
evidence 
that 
they 
are 
acting with the 
consent 
of 
a 
manufacturer 
located 
outside 
the Kenya (Annex 
1: 
Letter 
of 
Authorization 
Template) 
 
 
 
1.5.3 
Local Authorized 
Representative and 
Subcontractors 
Only one Local 
Representative Person 
should be identified, 
and this should be 
consistent across the 
device labels, and 
Declarations of 
Conformity. 
 
2.0 
Janu
ary 
2022 
Paulyne  
Citation 
Page 
Addition of opening and 
closing citations 
 
 
 
format 
Glossary and 
Abbreviations added 
 
 
 
Back page  
Aligment with control of 
document SOP. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P. O. Box 27663 00506 Lenana Road Opposite Russian Embassy Nairobi, 
Tel:  +254-02-12345/6789, Fax: +254-02-12345, Website:  
www.Pharmacyboardkenya.org.ke, Email: 
info@pharmacyboardkenya.org.ke 
